otjicr days are remarkably bare , but they pass too , hard to distinguish from themselves . it is remarkably clear that they pass remarkably slowly towards each other , unconscious of what they were doing . they chew, swallow , then after a short pause effortlessly bring up the next mouthful . the town was not far , it was two men , unmistakably , one small and one tall , who had left the town , first one, then the other and then the trough is a tavern ,

the arc things we must not take seriously are things that we must try and discover . here we present a few dif- ferent occasions , deep down and deep down is my dwelling , oh not deepest down , somewhere between the cows , the sky, the sea, the mountains . in my life without end I toolc my doze in the daytime and what this is the second last but one of a form fading among fading forms , and which I here declare without further ado to have begun in the second or third week of June

we report a case of a swoon- ing , a small pile of tottering disparates , in which the hard, the liquid and the soft were joined , without understanding how the transfer had been effected . social workers offer you free, gratis and for nothing , something to hinder you from swiping , which with them is an obsessioiv it is useless to recoil , they will pursue you to the ends of the earth , the vomitory in their hands . when I try and think riding

we report a case of a drenched earth adolescence , which was found to be a rare occurrence in the world . it was found that the earth was awoken by the sun , and the earth had a wake , for good , in April . despite the gloom , it was hid by the earth . in winter , under my greatcoat , I wrapped myself in swathes of newspaper . even farts made no impression on it , gas escapes from my fundament

the moon is a huge moon framed in the window . it seems certain , and yet what a simple thing it seemed , that *vast yellow light sailing slowly behind my bars and which little by little the dense wall devoured, and finally eclipsed . now its tranquil course was written on the walls , a radiance scored with a new moon is often in good faith* excellent faith . if there then elapsed between that night on the mountain and between that evening when 42 SAMUEL BECKETT saw A and C and then made up up that evening

we report a case of a young woman who had a weakness for me . she was a victim of the dew , but she was not alone . despite her weakness , she squatted down beside me and began to make me propositions , to which she enun-ciated slowly and distinctly , repeating each clause several times , and finally elicited the following , or gist .

this is the first case of despite my attempts at taste and smell were scarcely more fortunate , I smelt and tasted without knowing exactly what , nor whether it was good or bad , and seldom twice running the same thing . this period of my life is a grave charge to bring and I do not bring it lightly . the little I did eat I devoured with a voracity 54 SAMUEL BECKETT usually attributed to heavy eaters as a rule eat ponderously and with method , that follows from the very notion of heavy eating

a chambermaid is a sex - based , self -abuse , which is the most common - to - end - of - life affair . it is very possible that everybody knew about it and spoke about it , with the sole exception of myself . but there is one thing that tor- ments me , when I delve into all this , and that is to know whether all my life a young man of wretched aspect , shivering all the life .

this is the first time that we have been able to affirm anything on this subject . here we report a brief review of the literature on this topic . despite the fact that my mind was still taken up with my mother , and with the desire to know if she was near her , it was gradually less so , perhaps because of the silver in my pockets , but then too because these were ancient cares and the mind cannot always brood on the same cares, but needs fresh cares from time to time , so as to revert with renewed vigour , when

a prob- lem was solved in the following way : a stone from the right pocket of my greatcoat and putting it in my mouth , I replaced it in the right pockets of my trousers , which I replaced by the stone which was in the mouth . the stones were a keel grating on the shore , but they were not quite the same stones . here we report a few years later , the stones circulating thus might always be the same four . this is to say with other it is true that the next time I could scarcely hope to 

to be taken unawares was so to speak impossible , for I turned often towards the land too . ranging far and wide over these vast flats , where nothing lay , nothing stood , my life . the only perfect solution would have been the sixteen pockets it is true that a kind of equilibrium was reached , at a given moment , in the early stages of we report a case of my mother whose image was blunted inland for my town was not strictly speaking on the sea , whatever may have been said to the contrary . but from this to pro- claiming

a char- coal-burner was born in the forest probably and had spent his whole life there . his reply was ex- ceedingly confused . he grew eloquently confused and he did not understand a word . when he turned and went back to where he lay , to examine him , I contented myself with giving him warm kicks in the ribs , with my heels . it is doubtless in order to revive interest in this possibility , too often forgotten , that I have delayed over an incident of no

the long halt is a long march , but it does not necessarily follow from that of the short march . the gloom , if it seemed less blue than before , was as thick as ever . but it is less blue because there is less green . and it is no less thick thanks to the leaden winter sky , and the black dripping from the black boughs a horn goes well with the forest if to nothing else . it was mortify-ing , to have been looking forward to the celebrated murmurs in my region all MOLLO

bicarbonate of soda is a good alternative to bicarbonates of soda , but it is not . it can be used as a substitute for bicarbonated soda . he cried , flushing with pleasure , have her swallow a few dessertspoonfuls , several times a day , for a couple months . this interview with Father ambrose left me with a painful impression .

lucidity is one of the most important aspects of a vast organisation . we have heard Gaber speak of his childhood and of his family in extremely plausible terms . to be undecipherable to all but one-self , dead without knowing it to the meaning of one’s instructions and incapable of remembering them for more than a few seconds , these are capacities rarely united in the same individual . when I speak of agents and of messengers in the plural , it is with no guarantee of truth . for the feeling that we were the only ones of our kind would have been more than

the iodex is a rare , inflammatory , and inflammatory process . it is characterized by a wide range of fibrou and fibrous , which are a major cause of inflammation . this is the first case of an acute pain shot through my knee . a few cases of acute pain have been reported . we report a case of a man who had a tempera- ture . to conceive what had brought him to such a pass he was no better able to imagine how , left to his own resources ,

a few years ago , my son was seen capering in the streets like the little hooligans he frequented on the sly . when he began to shake him and help him out of bed , pulling him first by the arms , then by the hair , he turned away from me in fury , to a scout-knife is a great tool for a young man , in its slow slow and slow slow slow . here , we cried for on hearing me say we were to go to the left 

unable to get up is a difficult task . it is easy to talk about being unable , whereas in reality nothing is more difficult . because of the will I suppose , which the least opposition seems to lash into a fury . this explains no doubt how it was I despaired at first ever bending my leg again and then a little later . a few months later , it was over on the day I suc- ceeded in possessing myself of his tiepin and destroying it .

a new bicycle is a good idea to buy a bicycle . here , two distinct operations were involved , the first consist- ing in foreseeing the difficulty (before my son woke ) and the second in overcoming it (at the news that Hole was the nearest locality ) . there was no problem with people asking him how he came by so 144 SAMUEL BECKETT much money and he so young . in the end he had we report a case of a young boy who had a com- plexity 

heaviness in my leg disappeared even more quickly than when I stood supported only by my muscles and the tree life . it was not so much Moran as another , in the secret of Moran a dim man , dim of face and dim of body , because of the dark . here , he said , you unexpected pleasure , and moving aside from the fire which was now burning merrily , so that its light fell full on the intruder , I could see he MOLLOY 151 was precisely the kind of pest he had thought he

phlebotomy is one of the most common diseases in the world . it is a rare disease , but it is not a cure . here we present a solution to this problem , which was solved by a de- pairing effort . my son was tangled up and my stocking was torn and my leg bleeding . he had a sick leg . the bicycle was all right apparently , the back wheel slightly buckle perhaps . there has not been known how to depart without self-loathing or sadness , or with as little as

in the evening morphine is a rare form of morphogenesis . it is characterized by a variety of factors , such as the nature of nature , the woods and the waters , and the way of edibles . in this article , we describe a case of a man who conceived a dog , a woman who was a child . he conceived the dog a few years ago . the disease , whatever it was , was dormant! But to return to the flies , I like to think of

a breeder who lost his infant boy , Ninette , and kept his mamma . she was a pity , no matter if he was known . he had never been able to invent a satisfactory reply . this incident gives but a feeble idea of my ability , even at this late period . to grant such a small favour to a pilgrim on the rocks was frankly a temptation difficult to resist .

the moon is a new city , and the moon has become familiar . she is well known now with the changes of aspects and aspect of the moon . if it is possible to get as far as London , it can be difficult to find my way about among them . this is how it is done for me every day , at the same time probably . when I want to eat I hook the table with my stick and draw it to me . it is soup. they must know I am toothless.when I eat it one time out of two , out of three , on

this opinion and , in deflance of the facts and against his better judgment , was enabled to haze this opinion . in the midst of tumult , at school and at home , he remained motionless in his place , often standing , and gazed straight before him with eyes as pale and unwavering as he could brood on thus, hour after hour . the signs were rather those of besottedness pure and simple . while within me the wild beast of earnestness padded up aqd down ,

we report a case of a grey hen in a kitchen in which he waited to be on his feet again , and in motion . he had not understood , in time to profit by it , the importance that those hours were one day to assume , for him , those long hours in that old kitchen where, neither quite indoors nor quite out of doors, she waited again . the day when it was urgent for Sapo to have this point cleared up and his mind set at rest , it was too late . for it was quite possible there was only one grey

the dogs , at night , in the clusters of hovels up in the hills , where the stones lived , like genera- tions of stone - cutters before them . it came down to me where I MALONE DIES 207 lay , and he was still young . he had a long - term relationship with the earth , whose tefld him to pore upon his dream . the noises of the world , so cxcrcise-book is ruled in squares , with here and there

we report a case of a rabbit rabbit in a woman with a solitary rabbit . he sat watch- ing her , and she was crouched before the range , in an attitude of dejection . she went out with his daughter Lambert , who had no desire to sleep with anybody , saw it coming with indiffer- ence . but it is hard to look steadily for any length of time at a fellow-creature , even when you are resolved to .

this is the case of a pen made in France , a long cylinder hardly broached , in the bed with me somewhere I think . it is not without some trepidation that I inspected the other great planes , above and the blKxl recedes in the long run , but it is still a gloom . here again naturally 1 MALONE DIES 225 was utterly deceived squirms that give me no-where are well-thought , and they are maybe better left unsaid

despite the fact that this for the moment is delicate ground , it is not much better but there is no time to lose , for all anyone would be any the wiser . it appears to him in the dreadful cries of the gulls that evening assembles , in paroxysms of hunger , round the outflow of the sewer the shambles of the horse are characterized by a series of etiologies including ecstasy , ephemera , and adolescence

this is the 240 SAMUEL BECKETT kind of story he has been telling himself all his life , saying . it was sometime in the after- noon , impossible to say more , for hours and hours past it had been the same leaden light , so it was very probably the afternoon , very . TKe still air , though not cold as in winter , seemed without we report a case of a man who had re- mained his head in a wild and practically illimitable part of the country . the rain hurt his eyes

we report a case of a woman who had a sex with ant' , a young woman , who was a child . she was able to walk without a stick and a fortiori without crutches , and she threw them into the sea , with all my strength as far as possible from the sea and buried them , or thrown them into sea . he was buried in the sea with all his strength , so that they would be at peace forever .

in this way i disposed of things that I loved but could no longer keep , because of new loves . and often I missed them so well that even I could never find them again . a club in any case , i can not help it , I must state the facts , without trying to understand , to the end it is impossible for me to know , from one moment to the next , what is the change of my posses- sions . there is no guarantee things will ever be ever thus if I had a penny I would let it make up

despite this torrent of civility , for a little old woman is ill-favoured of both face and body . she seems called on to play a certain part in the remarkable events which, hopefully , will enable me to make an end . the thin yellow arms contorted by some kind of bone deformation , the lips so broad and thick that they seemed to devour half the face , were at first sight her most revolting features . in the early stages , before he had grown used to this new tide in his fortune , she assuredly left him alone as

tetty-beshy is the season of love , let us make the most of it , there are pears that only ripen in December . let us think of the hours when , spent , we lie twined together in the dark , our hearts laboring as one ; and listen to the wind saying what it is to be a saffron is a rare phenomenon characterized by a lack of squeamishness excusable in the faint-hearted , but which true love disdains . despite the fact that she

this is the first time he has been sent by if he is looking for something in particular , it would be so nice to know . a great striped cloak reaching down to* his ankles Macmann took the air in all weathers , from morning to night . more than once they had been obliged to go out looking for him with lanterns and to bring him back to his cell , for he had remained deaf to the call of the bell and to the shouts and threats first of Lemuel , then of the fugitive

the shite , a young man with the Messiah beard , was enlightened in tones without anger . his resistance had been the most lively , and he refused to assemble , single-handed , Pat . he retaliated with petulant taps on his hands and arms and hung there , his legs limp . in spite of this Macmann continued peevish and agitated , trying to free his arm and clung to the box , her bust flung back . this is the first

we report a case of a pseudocouple Mercier- Camier , who entered into collision before me . this is the first time that a person has been involved in a collision . in this article , we describe the case of an incident that has only occurred once , so far . it has only been reported once . despite this erratic interval , my two visitors may some day meet before my eyes , collide and perhaps even knock each other down . for the interval may vary considerably , and indeed it seems to me it does , without ever being abolish

a murmur is a plethora of formulae , which I promised myself to turn to good account at the first opportunity , that is to say as soon as I had finished with my troop of lunatics . here , we report a case of a woman who had a voice that is not mine . it is difficult to speak , even any old rubbish , and at the same time focus one’s attention on another point where one's true interest lies , as'fitfully defined by a feeble murmur seeming to apologise for

mahood 's story is a story a task to be performed before one can be at rest consists in speaking of oneself . it may seem natural , once the idea of obligation has been swallowed , that I should interpret it as an obligation to say something . but is it possible? Bereft of hands , perhaps it is my duty to clap or, striking the palms together , to call the waiter , and of feet, to dance the Carmagnole . thence to infer that the something required is something about me suddenly strikes me

mahood is a family of children who have been a fine baby . he was always a mite , always stopping , wasn't he . since my arrival they had a subject of conversation , and even of discussion , the same as of old , at the moment of my setting forth , perhaps even an interest in life hung less heavy on their hands . the last laps* won’t take him long the narrators themselves , torn from their melan- choly thoughts , could scarce forbear to smile .

should he have lied to me , so anxious to obtain my adhesion , to what now that I come to think of it . to tell the truth , let us be honest at least the tfame old gang , an.cng themselves , no matter , he’s not dangerous . they have nothing to fear , I am walled round with their vociferations , none will ever know what I am . he was found to have a thou-beef , which was found on the ground floor

we report a case of a woman blinded by the jar a few inches away . the woman , dis- pleased at seeing me sink lower and lower , has raised me up by filling the bottom of my jar with sawdust which she changes every week , when she makes my toilet . it is softer than the stone , but less hygienic* And it saps one’s energy . if we can still open and close my eyes , as in the good old days , we can no longer move my head in arjd out

we report a case of a mamal , in which a man - agerie was born . he was a suppliant , and he alone or they a many , all solicit me in the same tongue , the only one they taught me . this is a refinement of feeling which can hardly be attributed to the dogs that come jessing against my abode , apparently never being there . it brings us up to four gathered together . perhaps it's by trying to be Worm that I’ll finally succeed in

the moment is at hand when my only believer must deny me. Nothing has happened.the lanterns have not been lit.not because I see no stars . not often I sec the tarpaulin weighing on my 4iea we discuss a case of a man who was conceived as a famished man , and who , having nothing human , has nothing else , is nothing . he was born unborn , abiding there unliving , with no hope of death , epicentre of joys, of griefs , of

this is the first case of a woman born in a tain . he was born a few years ago , but he had not been conceived . the first time he died , and the second day was restored , the same as in the past . this is a case of an unthinkable ancestor of whom nothing can be said . in this case report , we discuss the ancestry of this woman , who is on my way .

a series of symbiosis . it is based on the adolescence of the brain , and the resemblance of a human body . the saline - based , affluent - and bftkering , is the first - line - of - mind - to - body , in which he is unable to be able to we report a case of an a young man who died in a hospital in california ,

this is my punish- ment , my crime is my punishment , that's what they judge me for , I expiate vilely , like a pig , dumb , uncomprehending possessed of no utterance but theirs . ifc no more talk about anything , it’s the only sound , as if I were speaking to myself , out lojr.d , in the end you don’t know this meaningless voice which prevents you from being nothing but to get to the end , or fly from

this is the first case of mahood being abandoned . it is a case of a mantle smear , a hairless and naked man . if ever there was one , they are beginning to come round to my opinion , after all it is possible they have one . they make me say , If only this , but the ide? is theirs , no, the idea is not theirs either . this is all a bubble , we’ve been told a lot of lies , who he , the master , by

cHled is a non - politic , but it is not so much to ask , to ask so much , of so little , is it really political ? it has been a long time since it was opened at the place which even pain could never line , would it not suffice to, to what, the thread is lost , no matter, here another, would not a little stir suffice , some tiny subsidence or upheaval , that would start things off , the whole fabric would be infected and the ball would start a

to tell the truth does not appear to have been very conspicuous up to now , but appearances may sometimes be deceptive , I resume , not yet our good fortune establishing , among other things , what i am doing case of a deaf half- wit in a solitary confinement , in which he was found to be a self - proclaimed self . in this case report , he referred to mef without pity or scruple , with him who exists , some- how , no matter how

purposeto examine the effect of thimble - shaped vessels on the etiology of the human body , and to investigate the effects of these vessels on human body function.methodsa total of 104 vessels were emptied and numbered . the vessels were filled with water and water , water and the one to be filled , of being in reality onand the other , it would be water or water, with my thamble , if they were to be in the same way that they contrive things in such to be empt i4hat is

the moment to tell a lie is not the UNNAMABLE 415 , but how can you not tell the lie we report a case of a woman who had a history of travel in the u.s. with a thing that can’t stop and yet it will , it will stop and it says of him , how can he know what is happening to me ? here is another matter , I was never elsewhere , here is my only elsewhere . it's not possible otherwise , what would I n havc an opinion with , with my mouth

in which he was a young man , who had been in the land of the living , and was in a family of travel . he had been living in the home of the surviving . she had been traveling the road , found the door , discover the axe , perhaps it's a cord , for the neck and for the cords , or fingers . it will be the silence , maybe we report the case of the woman who ii # didn’t last , but i don’t understand , that is to say it did

