 Molloy is in his mother's room and sleeps in her bed and piss and shit in her pot . He says he doesn't know how he got there thanks to a man who comes every week . He gives him money and takes away the pages .

 It seems to me sometimes that I even knew my son, that I helped him . Sometimes I tell myself it’s impossible I could ever have helped anyone. I’ve forgotten how to spell too, and half the words. I've forgotten it again. It wasn’t true love. The true love was in another. chambermaid. Her name? I've forgot it again . Here's my beginning. It gave me a lot of trouble with it. It was the beginning, do you understand?

 It was on a road remarkably bare, without hedges or ditches or any kind of edge, in the country . cows were chewing in enormous fields, lying and stand- ing in the evening silence . Two men, unmistakably, one small and one tall, had left the town, first one, then the other, and then the first retraced his steps .

 They couldn’t have seen each other, even had they raised their heads and looked about, because of this wide space, and then because of the undulating land, which caused the road to be in waves, not high, but high enough, high enough . But the moment came when together they went down into the same trough and in this trough finally met .

 The man was innocent, greatly innocent, he had nothing. to do and turning to height for solace . Now he knows these hills, that is to say he knows them better, and if ever again he sees them from afar it will be I think with other eyes .

 It seemed to me he wore a cocked hat. I remember being struck by it, as I wouldn’t have been for example by a cap or by a bowler . I watched him recede, overtaken by his anxiety, at least MOLLO Y 11 by an anxiety which was not necessarily his .

 I saw him only darkly, because of the dark and then because of terrain, in the folds of which he disappeared from time to time, to re-emerge further on . I watched him recede, at grips (myself) with the temptation to get up and follow him, perhaps even to catch - up with him one day, so as to know him better, be myself less lonely . But in spite of my soul’s leap out to him, at the end of its elastic.

 A little dog followed him, a pomeranian I think, but I don’t think so . He moved with a kind of loitering indolence which rightly or wrongly seemed to me expressive . Perhaps he had come from afar, from the other end of the island even, and was approaching the town for the first time or returning to it after a long absence .

 MOLLOY 13: 'I knew I could catch him, lame as I was. I had only to want to. And yet no, for I did want to . To watch them out of sight, no, I can’t do it. It was in thij sense he disappeared. Looking away I thought of him, saying, He is dwindling, dwindling .

 There I am then, informed as to certain things, knowing certain things about him, things I didn't know . I am even capable of having learnt what his profession is, I who am so inter- ested in professions . And to think I try my best not to talk about myself. In a moment I shall talk about the cows, about the sky, if I can .

 To restore silence is the 14 SAMUEL BBCKBTT role of objects . So I doubtless did better, at least no worse, not to stir from my observation post . But instead of observ- ing I had the weakness to return in spipt to the other, the man with the stick .

 I must have been on the top, or on the slopes, of some considerable eminence . But what was an eminence doing in this land with hardly a ripple? And I, what was I doing there, and why come? There is a little of everything, apparently in nature, and freaks are common .

 Not that I was so conclusively, I mean confirmed, in my first impressions with regard to — wait — C. C. I sleep little and that little by day, and if it happens that I speak of the stars it is by mistake .

 SAMUEL BECKETT wrote about the craving for a fellow . But perhaps I shall see them again. But shall I be able to recognise them? And am I sure I never saw them again? Never once a human voice. But the cows, when the peasants passed, crying in vain to be milked. away.

 Dear bicycle, I shall not call you bike, you were green, like so many of your generation . It was a chainless bicycle, with a free-wheel, if such a bicycle exists . It had a little red horn instead of the bell fashionable in your days . To blow this horn was for me a real pleasure, almost a vice .

 Dan, I don’t know why, my name is not Dan, he says . Rest my legs, the good one as well as the bad. rest my legs . But before I leave this earthly paradise, suspended between mountains and sea, exposed to all that Auster vents, in the way of scents and langours .

 Dan was my father’s name perhaps, yes, perhaps she took me for my father . I called her Mag because for me, without my knowing' why the letter g abolished the syllable Ma . And at the same time I satisfied a deep and doubtless unacknowledged need, the need to have a Ma, that is a mother, and to proclaim it, audibly .

 One knock meant yes, two no, three I don’t know, four money, five goodbye . One bank-note was stuck under her nose or in her mouth .

 In any case I didn't come for money. I took her money, but I didn’t come for that. I forgive her for having jostled me a little in the first months . And I also give her credit for not having done it again, thanks to me, or for having stopped in time .

 SAMUEL BECKETT was distraught, who am so seldom distraught, from what should* I be distraught, and as to my motions even more uncertain than usual . The night must have tired me at least weakened me, and the sun, hoisting itself higher and higher in the east, had poisoned me, while I slept .

 Cyclists entering and leaving town are required by the police to dismount, cars to go into bottom gear and horse- drawn vehicles to slow down to a walk . The ways into and out of this town are narrow and darkened by enormous vaults, without excep- tion .

 The only papers I carry with me are bits of newspaper, to wipe myself, you understand, when I have a stool . The weather was fine. We took the little side streets, quiet, sunlit, I springing along between my crutches, he pushing my bicydle, with the tips of his white-gloved fingers .

 It was the hour of rest, the forenoon's toil ended, the afternoon’s to come . The wisest perhaps, lying in the squares or sitting on their doorsteps, were savouring its languid ending . Others on the contrary were using it to hatch their plans, their heads in their hands .

 I am so little used to being asked anything that when I am asked something I take some time to know what . And the mistake I make then is this, that instead of quietly reflecting on what I have just heard, I hasten to answer blindly . I am full of fear, I have gone in fear all my life, in fear of blows . Insults, abuse, these I can easily bear, but I could never get used to blows . Even spits still pain me.

 My name is Molloy. My mother lived near the shambles, it could equally well have been the cattle-market, near which she lived . Never mind, said the sergeant, it’s the same district .

 SAMUEL BECKETT was taken to a guardroom and told to sit down . The room was full of malefactors, policemen, lawyers, priests and journalists . They paid no attention to me and I repaid the compliment . But suddenly a woman rose up before him, a big fat woman dressed in black, or rather in mauve . She was holding out to me, on an odd saucer, a mug full of a greyish concoction which must have been green tea .

 When social workers offer you, free, gratis and for nothing, something to hinder you from swoon- ing, they will pursue you to the ends of the earth, the vomitory in their hands . The Salvation Army is no better. Against the charitable gesture there is no defence, that I know of . To him who has nothing it is forbidden not to relish filth .

 I was surprised to find myself so soon at freedom once again, if that is what it was, unpenalised . To apply the letter of the law to a creature like me is not an easy matter. It can be done, but reason is against it. It is better to leave things to the police .

 If I have behaved like a pig, the fault lies not with me but with my superiors, he says . It is in the tranquillity of decomposition that I remember the long confused emotion which was my life, and that I judge it, as it is said that God will judge me .

 The declining sun fell full on the white wall of the barracks. It was like being in China. A confused shadow was cast. I asked the man to help me, to have pity on me. He didn’t understand. I thought of the food I had refused. I took a pebble from my pocket and sucked it .

 When I try and think riding I lose my balance and fall. I speak in the present tense, when speaking of the past, it is the mythological present . I was already settling in my raglimp stasis when I remembered it wasn’t done. I went on my way, that way of which I knew nothing, qua way .

 It came back to my mind, from nowhere, as a moment before my name, that I had set out to see my mother, at the begin- ning of this ending day . My reasons? I had forgotten them. But I knew them, I must have known them, and I had only to find them again .

 There is no denying it, any longer, it is not you who are dead, but all the others . So you get up and go to your mother, who thinks she is alive . But now I shall have to get myself out of this ditch . How joyfully f would vanish there, sinking deeper and deeper under the rains .

 A shepherd and a panting dog were watching him as he slept . The shepherd and his dog had not left the path . He was waiting for an order from his master to drag him out of the brambles .

 I heard the shepherd whistle, and I saw him flourishing his crook, and the dog bustling about the herd, which but for him would no doubt have fallen into the canal . The bleating grew faint, because the sheep were less anxious., or because they were further away, or because my hearing was worse than a moment before . I got to my knees, no, that doesn't work, I got up and watched the little procession recede . But whether it was he didn't understand, or didn't reply, he didn’t reply, but went on his way .

 The Aegean, 'thirsting for heat and light, him I killed, he killed himself, early on, in me' 30 SAMUEL BECKETT to get to my mother .

 In winter, under my greatcoat, I wrapped myself in swathes of newspaper, and did not shed them until the earth awoke, for good, in April . The Times Literary Supplement was admirably adapted to this purpose, of a never failing toughness and impermeability . Even farts made no impression on it .

 All roads were right for me, a wrong road was an event, for me . But when I was on my way to my mother only one road was right, the one that led to her, for all did not lead to her . the right MOLLOY 31 road .

 There could be no things but nameless things, no names but thing- less names . Even my sense of identity was wrapped in a namelessness, as we have just seen I think .

 The most you can hope is to be a little less, in the end, the creature you were in the beginning, and the middle .

 The lady must have thought she had left nothing to chance, so far as the safety of her dog was concerned . Instead of grovelling in my turn, invoking my great age and infirmities, I made things worse by trying to run away . I was soon overtaken by a bloodthirsty mob of both sexes and all ages, for I caught a glimpse of white beards and little, almost angel faces .

 Samuel Beckett was attacked by a police constable after he ran over his dog . He is beside himself, for reasons of which we know nothing and which might put us all to shame, if we did know them . The constable finally dispersed, grumbling and growling, followed by the last idlers who had given up all hope of my coming to a bad end .

 I made no bones about telling her I needed neither her nor anyone else, which was perhaps a slight exaggeration . Ah yes, I too needed her, it seemed. She needed me to help her get rid of her dog, and I needed her. She must have told me, for that was an insinuation I could not decently pass over in silence as I had the rest .

 There were no words tar the want of need in which I was perishing, for to say I needed no one was not to say too much, but an infinitesimal part of what I should have said, could not have said . Time sometimes turns the tables .

 The house where Sophie — no, I can’t call her that any more . I’ll try calling her Lousse, without the Mrs — the house where Lousse lived •was not far away . It was because I knew I was there that I had my bellyful, a mile more to %o .

 From such testicles as mine, dangling 36 SAMUEL BECKETT at mid-thigh at the end of a meagre cord, there was nothing more to be squeezed, not a drop . So that non che la speme il desiderio, and I longed to see them gone, from the old stand where they bore false witness .

 It was Loussc dug the hole while I held the dog in my arms . For ever I stoop, forgetting who I am, or kneel, it will not be me, but another . To throw him in the hole was all I could have done, and I would have done it gladly .

 The dog had ticks in his ears, I have an eye for such things, they were buried with him . When she had finished her grave she handed me the spade and hpgan to muse, or brood . She would see him no more, her Teddy she had loved like an only child .

 He must have belonged to an American sailor, before he belonged to Lousse . He had a parrot, very pretty, all the most approved colours . I understood him better than his mistress . He exclaimed from time to time, 'F*** the son of a bitch'

 It may seem strange that I was able to go through the motions I have described without their help . I recount these moments with a certain minute- ness, it is a relief from what I feel coming . The room was chock-full of pouffes and easy chairs, they thronged all about me .

 It seemed to me too that I had been perfumed, lavender perhaps . If I was in the right town, I had made progress, but was I? If on the other hand I was . in the wrong town, from which my mother would necessarily be absent, then I had lost ground . I must have fallen asleep, for all of a sudden there was the moon .

 In the end it was magic that had the honour of my ruins, and still today, when I walk there, I find its vestiges . They are a place with neither plan nor bounds and of which I under* stand nothing .

 The voice is of a world collapsing endlessly, a frozen world, under a faint untroubled sky . And I hear it murmur that all wilts and yields, as if loaded down, but here there are no loads, and the ground too, unfit for loads . And it says that here nothing stirs, has never stirred, will never stir, except myself, who do not stir either, but see and am seen .

 It makes no difference whether I listen to it or not I shall hear it always, no thunder can deliver me, until it stops . But nothing compels me to speak of it, when it doesn’t suit me, at the moment . Perhaps I should go to mother tomorrow. For all things hang together, by the operation of the Holy Ghost .

 If you set out to mention everything you would never be done, and that's what counts, to be done . And if I failed to mention this detail in its proper place, it is because you cannot mention everything in its . proper place .

 The moon seen from Lousse’s house, far from being full, as it had appeared to me, was in fact merely entering on its first quarter, or else that, the moon seen on the night before, was merely entering its first half . And it came back also to my mind, as sleep stole over it again, that my nights were moonless and the moon foreign, to my nights .

 The next day I demanded my clothes. The valet went to find out. He came back with the news they had been burnt. He left me MOLLOY 43 alone again .

 I don't know to what race he belonged, he was so tiny and ageless, assuredly not to mine . He wore white trousers, a white shirt and a yellow waistcoat, like a 44 SAMUEL BECKETT chamois he was .

 Look at him, peaceful in his own clothes, and look at me, floating about inside another man’s nightdress, another woman's probably, for it was pink and transparent and adorned with ribands and frills and lape . Whereas the room, I saw the room but darkly, at each fresh inspection it seemed changed, and that is known as seeing darkly .

 When he finally understood what I wanted he went away and came back with my hat . Nothing was missing then except the lace to fasten my hat to my buttonhole .

 SAMUEL BECKETT lost a knife in a burst of irritation, but resolved to declare loudly that a knife was missing . He soon received a very fine vegetable knife, so-called stainless, but it didn’t take me long to stain it, and which opened and shut into the bargain, unlike all the vegetable knives I had ever known .

 'What I have, what I am, is enough, was always enough for me, and as far as my dear little sweet little future is concerned I have no qualms, I have a good future'

 Lousse was in the garden, fussing around the grave . She was sowing grass on it, as if grass wouldn’t have sown itself on it . She came warmly towards me and gave me food and drink . I ate and drank standing, casting about me in search of my bicycle .

 Lousse, taking advantage of my weakness, squatted down beside me and began to make me propositions . I would live in her home, as though it were my own, and my remaining days would glide away without a care . She would be grieved, but what was her grief, compared to my grief?

 SAMUEL BECKETT met Lousse in a garden in the town of Lousse . Lousse loved spike- lavender, she must have told me herself, otherwise I would not have known, she loved it above all other herbs .

 There was no question of moon, nor any other light, but it was a night of listening, a night given to the faint soughing MOLLOY 49 and sighing stirring at night in little pleasure gardens .

 Yes, there were times when I forgot not only who I was, but that I was . Then I was no longer that sealed jar to which I owed my being so well preserved, but a wall gave way and I filled with roots and tame stems .

 The words engraved themselves for ever on my memory, perhaps because V understood them at once, a thing I didn’t often do . Not that I was hard of hearing, for I had quite a sensitive ear, and sounds unencumbered with precise mean- ing were registered perhaps better by me than by most .

 Of nature too, and of the works of men, I reacted in my own way and without desire of enlightenment . And my eye too, the seeing one, must have been ill-connected with the spider, for I found it hard to name what was mirrored there, often quite distinctly . But I was like that even when I had my two eyes, it seems to me .

 I who had loved the image of old Geulincx, dead young, who left me free, on the black boat of Ulysses, to crawl towards the East, along the deck . That is a great measure of free- dom, for him who has not the pioneering spirit . And from the poop, poring upon the wave, a sadly rejoicing slave, I follow with my eyes the proud and futile wake .

 I did most of the time, was fixed too, and when I moved, from place to place, it was very slowly, as in a cage out of time, as the saying is, in the jargon of the schools, and out of space too to be sure . To be out of one and not out of the other was for cleverer than me, who was not clever, but foolish . I preferred the garden to the house, to judge by the long hours I spent there .

 The garden was surrounded with a high wall, its top bristling with broken glass like fins . But what must have been absolutely unexpected was this, that this wall was broken by a wicket-gate giving free access to the road, for it was never locked . Never did I see a woman within these precincts .

 Lousse her- self I saw but little, she seldom showed herself to me, out of tact perhaps, fearing to alarm me . But I think she spied on me a great deal, hiding behind bushes, or the curtains, or skulking in shadows of a first-floor room, with a spy-glass perhaps .

 SAMUEL BECKETT usually attributed to heavy eaters, usually eat ponderously and with method, that follows from the very notion of heavy eating . But the little I did eat I devoured with a voracity . I would engulf five or six mugs of beer with one swig then drink nothing for a week .

 The truth is that I felt more or less the same as usual, that is to say, if I may give myself away . I was virtually bereft of feeling, not to say of consciousness, and drowned in a deep and merciful torpor .

 Even as a child I do not remember ever having bounded, neither rage nor pain ever made me bound . I ate it as, when and where it best suited me. I never had to call for it. It was brought to me, wherever I happened to be, on a tray. I can still see the tray, almost at will, it was round .

 With Lousse my health got no worse, or scarcely, as was only to be expected . But there was kind'ed no new seat of suffering or infection, except those arising from the spread of existing plethoras and deficiencies .

 Lousse was a woman of extraor-dinary flatness, physically speaking of course, to such a point that I am still wondering this evening, in the comparative silence of my last abode, if she was not a man rather or at least an androgyne . But it is useless to drag out this chapter of my, how shall I say, my existence, for it has no sense, to my mind .

 She had a hole between her legs, oh not the bunghole I had always imagined, but a slit, and in this I put, or rather she put, my so-called virile member, not without difficulty . I toiled and moiled until I discharged or gave up trying or was begged by her to stop . But is it true love, in the rectum? That’s what bothers me sometimes .

 We met in a rubbish dump, unlike any other, and yet they are all alike, rubbish dumps . She had a dainty flat, no, not daintty, it made you want to lie down in a corner and never get up again . She gave me money after each session, to me who would have consented to probe it to the bottom, without charge .

 She died taking a warm tub, as her custom was before receiving me. It limbered her up. The tub overturned and the dirty water spilt all over the floor and down on top of the lodger below, who gave the alarm .

 Molloy was a chambermaid in Lousse's life, but never sought to repeat the experience . He says he is willing to go on thinking of her as an old woman, widowed and withered, and of Ruth .

 She must have seen me go, get up, take my crutches and go away, springing on them through the air . And she did not try and hold me back but she went and sat down on her dog's grave . I left her my bicycle which I had taken a dislike to, suspecting it to be the vehicle of some malignant agency and perhaps the cause of my recent misfortunes .

 Not knowing where I was nor consequently what way I ought to go I went with the wind . I might come back one day, by devious winding ways, to the place I was leaving . But I entered the first shelter I came to and stayed there till dawn, for a man came in soon after me and drove me out .

 In the end I too went away, when I deemed it prudent, and wandered about the town in search of a familiar monument, so that I might say, I am in my town, after all, I have been there all the time . The town was waking, doors opening and shutting, soon the noise would be deafening . But espying a narrow alley between two high buildings I looked about me, then slipped into it . Little windows overlooked it, on either side, on every floor, facing one another .

 A fine rain was falling and I took off my hat to give my skull the benefit of it, my skull all cracked and furrowed and on fire, on fire . I also took it off because it was digging into my neck, because of the thrust of the wall . So I had two good reasons for taking it off and they were none too many, neither alone would ever have prevailed I feel .

 SAMUEL BECKETT set off towards the sun, why not, the wind having fallen. Or rather towards the least gloomy quarter of the heaven . It was from this cloud the above rain was falling .

 People were hastening angrily to and fro, most of them in the shelter of the umbrella . Many a one must have said. They arc right, I am wrong, meaning by they the category to which he did not belong . But at the sight of a young old man of wretched aspect, shivering all alone in a narrow doorway, I suddenly remembered the project conceived the day of my en- counter with Lousse and her dog and which this encounter had prevented me from carrying out . So I went and stood beside him, with the air of one jvho says. Here’s a clever fellow, let me follow

 There I am then in my turn alone, in the doorway. I could not hope for anyone to come and stand beside me, and yet it was a possibility I did not exclude . I had stolen from Lousse a little silver, oh nothing much, massive teaspoons for the most part . Among these latter there was one which haunts me still, from time to time. It consisted of two crosses joined by a bar .

 SAMUEL BECKBTT could never bring himself to sell it, even in his worst need . But for a certain time I think it inspired me with a kind of veneration, for there was no doubt in my mind that it was not an object of virtue, but that it had a most specific function always to be hidden from me .

 Though my mind was still taken up with my mother, and with the desire to know if I was near her, it was gradually less so . Perhaps because of the silver in my pockets, but I think not, and then too because these were ancient cares . The mind cannot always brood on the same cares, but needs fresh cares from time to time .

 It seemed to me that if I kept on in a straight line I was bound to leave it, sooner or later . But in the country there is another justice, other judges, at first . And having cleared the ram- parts I had to confess the sky was clearing, prior to its winding in the other shroud, night .

 I know, but gradually merge into one another. And I never noticed anything of the kind, but however far I went, it was al- ways the same sky, always the same earth, precisely, day after day and v.igrit after night . But I preferred to abide by my simple feeling that said, Molloy, your region is vast, you have never left it and you never shall .

 Molloy 67 is haunted by memories of his legs and feet . He says he can't forget them as he can his arms, which are sound and well .

 From eight or nine till noon is the dan- gerous time . But towards noon things quiet down, the most im- placable are sated, they go home . There have been a few survivors, but they’ll give no more trouble., each man counts his rats .

 For the monster on the move, or on the watch, lurking in his lair, there is no mercy, whereas he taken unawares, in his sleep, may sometimes get the benefit of milder feelings . For the hunter is weak at heart and senti- mental, overflowing with repressed treasures of gentleness and com- passion .

 Much of my life has ebbed away before this shivering expanse, to the sound of the waves in storm and calm, and the claws of the surf . In the sand I was in my element, letting it trickle between my fingers, scooping holes that I filled in a moment later or that filled themselves in, flinging it in the air by handfuls, rolling in it. And in the cave, lit by the beacons at night, I knew what to do in order to be no worse off than elsewhere. And that my land went no further, in one direction at least, did not displease me.

 I took advantage of being at the seaside to lay in a store of sucking-stones . I distributed them equally between my four pockets, and sucked them turn ahd turn about . This raised a prob- lem which I first solved in the following way .

 SAMUEL BECKETT tried to transfer the stones four by four, instead of one by one, during the sucking . But this was only a makeshift that could not long content a man like me. So I began to look for something else.

 I always ran the same risk, for no matter how I caused the stones to cir- culate. I should have needed sixteen pockets in order to be quite easy in my mind. But on further reflection I had to change my mind and confess .

 Sitting on the MOLLOY 71 shore, before the sea, the sixteen stones spread out before my eyes, I gazed at them in anger and perplexity . I was beginning to lose all sense of measure, after all this wrestling and wrangling, and to say. them seemed to be more than I could manage .

 Of Isaiah, or of Jeremiah, I did not penetrate at once, and notably the word trim, which I had never met with, in this sense, long remained obscure . Finally I seemed to grasp that this word trim could not here mean anything else, anything better, than the distribution of the sixteen stones in four groups of four, one group in each pocket . And it was on the basis of this interpretation, whether right or wrong, that I finally reached a solution .

 Watch me closely.-I take a stone from the right pocket of my greatcoat, suck it, stop sucking it, put it in the left pocket, the one empty (of stones) I take a second stone from right pocket . suck it . suck one after the other, and so on until the right . pocket is empty (apart from its usual and casual contents) and the six stones I have just sucked are all in the . left pocket .

 After the next MOLLOY 73 series, of sucks and transfers, I shall be back where I started, that is to say with the first six stones back in the supply pocket, the next five in the right pocket of my stinking old trousers and the last five in left pocket of same, and my sixteen stones will have been sucked once at least in impeccable succession .

 In order for each cycle to be identical, as to the succession of stones in my mouth, the only means were numbered stones or sixteen pockets . The only perfect solution would have been the sixteen pockets, sym- metrically disposed, each one with its stone . But however imperfect my own solution was, I was pleased at having found it all alone .

 It was above all inelegant in this, to my mind, that the uneven distribution was painful to me, bodily . To suck the stones in the way I have described, not haphazard, but with method, was also I think a bodily need .

 The black speck I was, in the great pale stretch of sand, who could wish it harm? Some came near, to see what it was, whether it wasn’t something of value from a wreck, washed up by the storm . But when they saw the jetsam was alive, decently if wretchedly clothed, they turned away .

 For those who came towards me I saw coming from afar, most of the time, that is one of the advantages of the seaside . And in the morning, in my cave, and even sometimes at night, when the storm raged, I felt reasonably secure from the elements and mankind .

 Between my town and the sea there wal a kind of swamp which. I at least knew of no other way, for my town was not strictly speaking on the sea, whatever may have been said to the contrary . There was always talk of draining, by means of canals or transforming into a vast port and docks, or into a city on piles for the workers .

 There was no way of coming at my town directly, by sea, but you had to disembark well to the north or the south and take to the roads . And now my progress, slow and pain- ful at all times, was more so than ever, because of my short stiff leg .

 I no longer had one bad leg plus another more or less good, but now both were equally bad . It was therefore on the old bad leg that I often longed to lean, between one crutchstroke and the next .

 The pain of the leg at rest was constant and monoto- nous. Whereas the leg condemned to the increase of pain inflicted by work knew the decrease of pain dispensed by work suspended, the space of an instant . The ways I went were for the most part little forest paths .

 I fancy, and my progress suffered, from this state of affairs, and from the slow and painful progress it had always been, whatever may have been said to the contrary, was changed . But the thought of suicide had little hold on me, I don’t know why, I thought 1 did, but I see I don't . The idea of strangulation in particular, however tempt- ing, I always overcame, after a short struggle . And between you and me there was never anything wrong with my respiratory tracts .

 I could count the days when I could neither breathe in the blessed air with its life-giving oxygen nor, when I had breathed it in, breathe out the bloody stuff, I could have counted them . But these were mere crises, and what are crises compared to all that never stops, knows neither ebb nor flow, its surface leaden above infernal depths .

 We underestimate this little hole, it seems to me, we call it the arse-hole and affect to despise it . But is it not rather the true portal of our being and the celebrated 80 SAMUEL BECKETT mouth no more than the kitchen-door. Nothing goes in, or so little, that is not rejected on the spot, or very nearly .

 I was in the metamorphosis of my excellent leg, or because there was in fact nothing special to report, in this connec- tion . But I had hardly left the shore, harried by the dread of waking one fine day, far from my mother, with my two legs as stiff as my crutches, when they suddenly began to gallop . I fix at this period the dastardly desertion of my toes, so to speak in the thick of the fray .

 I give you my word, I cannot piss, my word of honour, as a gentleman . Bdt my prepuce, sat verbum, oozes urine, day and night, at least I think it’s urine, it smells of kidney . My sweat too, and God knows I sweat, has a queer smell, and my dribble as well, and heaven knows I dribble .

 82 SAMUEL BECKETT has a presentiment that the day will come for me to say what is left of all I had . But I must wait, to be sure there is nothing more I can acquire, or lose, or throw away, o- give away . Then I can say, without fear of error, what's left, in the end, of my possessions, for it will be the end .

 I was no ordin- ary cripple, far from it, and there were days when my legs were the best part of me, with the exception of the brain capable of forming such a judgement . The fact is, and I deplore it, but it is too late now to do anything about it, that I have laid too much stress on my legs, throughout these wanderings .

 Some days I advanced no more than thirty or forty paces, I give you my oath . To say I stumbled in impenetrable darkness, no, I cannot. I stumbled, but the darkness was not . For there reigned a kind of blue gloom, more than sufficient for my visual needs . The forest was all about me and the boughs, twining together at a prodigious height .

 I might have loved him, I think, if I had been seventy years younger . But it’s not certain. For then he too would have been younger by as much, oh not quite as much . I never really had much love to spare, but all the same I had my little quota, when I was small, and it went to the old men, when it could .

 I carefully chose the most favourable position, a few paces from the body, with my back of course turned to it . Then, nicely balanced on my crutches, I began to swing, backwards, forwards, feet pressed together, or rather legs pressed together . I swung, that’s all that matters, in an ever-widening arc .

 People imagine, because you are old, poor, crippled, terrified, that you can’t stand up for yourself, and generally speak- ing that is so . But given favourable conditions, a feeble and awk- MOLLOY 85 ward assailant, in your own class what, and a lonely place, and you have a good chance of showing what stuff you are made of .

 Samuel Beckett lived in the forest, not all forest, but plains, mountains and sea, and some towns and villages, connected by highways and byways . He says he looked forward to getting out of the forest some day .

 For being in the forest, a place neither worse nor better than the others, and being free to stay there, was it not natural I should think highly of it, not because of what it was, but because I was there . But I could not, stay . physically nothing could have been easier, but I was not purely physical, I lacked something, and I would have had the feeling, if I had stayed in the . forest, of course, of going against an imperative, at least I had that impression . But perhaps I was mistaken, perhaps I . would have been better advised to stay . Perhaps I could have stayed

 It is true they nearly all bore on the same question, that of my relations with my mother, and on the importance of bringing as soon as possible some light to bear on these and even on the kind of light that should be brought to bear and the most effective means of doing so . yet I submitted to them. It had become a habit. Yes, these imperatives were quite explicit and detailed until, having set me in motion at last, they began to falter, then went silent .

 All my life, I think I had been going to my mother, with the purpose of establishing our relations on a less precarious footing . When I was with her, and I often succeeded, I left her without having done anything . And when I was no longer with her I was again on my way to her, hoping to do better the next time .

 In reality I said nothing at all, but I heard a murmur, something gone wrong with the silence, and I pricked up my ears, like an animal I imagine, which gives a start and pretends to be dead . And then sometimes there arose within me, confusedly, a kind of consciousness, which I express by saying, I said, etc., or. Don’t do it Molloy, or. Is that your mother’s dame? said the sergeant, for example .

 It was winter, it must have been winter, and not only many trees had lost their leaves, but these lost leaves had gone all black and spongy and my crutches sank into them, in places right up to the fork . Strange to say I felt no colder than usual, but I was never very sensitive to changes of temperature .

 In vain I listened, I could hear nothing of the kind . But rather, with much goodwill and a little imagination, at long intervals a distant gong . A horn goes well with the forest, you expect it. It is the huntsman. But a gong! Even a tom-tom, at a pinch, would not have shocked me .

 The advantage of this mode of loco- motion compared to others, I mean those I have tried, is this, that when you want to rest you stop and rest, without further ado . And in this way I moved onward in the forest, slowly, but with a certain regularity, and I covered my fifteen paces, day in, day out .

 The day came when the forest ended and I saw the light, the light of the plain, exactly as I had foreseen . But I did not see it from afar, trembling beyond the harsh trunks, as I'd foreseen, but suddenly I was in it, I opened my eyes and saw I had arrived .

 Whether it was my town or not, whether somewhere under that faint haze my mother panted on, or whether she poisoned the air a hundred miles away, were ludicrously idle ques- tions for a man in my position . For how could I drag myself over that vast moor, where my crutches would fumble in vain? And then? Would they let me roll on to my mother’s door? Fortunately for me at this painful juncture, I heard a voice telling me not to fret, that help was coming .

 Moran, Moran, Jacques. That is the name I am known by. I am done for. My son too. My report will be long. Perhaps I shall not finish it . I remember the day I received the order to see about Molloy.

 I’ve always loved doing nothing. And I would gladly have rested on weekdays too, if I could have afforded it. Not that I was positively lazy. It was something else. Seeing something done which I could tthve done better myself . But this was a joy in which, during the week, I could seldom indulge .

 Samuel Beckett was a neighbour but had no patience with people who took liberty to disturb him . His dealings were strictly of a business nature and he had journeyed from afar . He was dressed in his heavy, sombre Sunday best, and at this my displeasure knew no bounds .

 Peeping and prying were part of my profession . I called him and ordered him to fetch some beer . He returned with two glasses and a quart bottle of beer . His intelligence seemed at times a little short of average .

 Gaber began bitterly to inveigh against our employer, who had made him get up in the middle of the night, just as he was getting into position to make love to his wife . He said, replied Gaber, that no one could do it but you. to be you, God knows why, said Gaber . Moran said, but he’s out of his mind! Your son goes with you .

 I was sometimes inclined to go too far when I reprimanded my son, who was con- sequently a little afraid of me . I decided to ask for a private communion, in the course of the afternoon . I would go withoi.; lunch. of all Sundays! When I so needed it! To buck me up!

 Verger Joly had a list of the faithful and that, from his place beside the font, he ticked us off when it came to the absolution . It is only fair to say that Father Ambrose knew nothing of these manoeuvres .

 Moran sat in his arm-chair dreaming of his breed’s infirmities and the singularities of those about him . But yet the poison was already acting on me, the poison I had just been given. giving my mind to it?

 Martha looked at me furiously and I knew . Gaber had gone without his beer . Martha flung herself at her pots and pans, dumb with anger .

 Irish stew was a nourishing and economical dish, if a little indigestible . I told him to wash his hands and sit down to his lunch . I did nothing but go to and fro. I liked punctuality, all those whom my roof sheltered had to like it too .

 I liked leaving on my autocycle, I was partial to this way of getting about . I was wrong, the weather was fine no longer, the sky was clouding over, soon it would rain .

 Father Ambrose asked his son to go out for a walk to go over his botany . The trouble was he knew far more than I, about botany. I would almost have preferred him to say For a walk, or. To look at the tarts .

 Father Ambrose, with being a man of the world and knowing its ways, he who never smoked . He offered me a cigar which I accepted with good grace and put in my pocket, between my fountain-pen and my propelling-pencil .

 The words tut tut seemed to me the maddest I had heard. There are times, he said, when one feols like weeping. I’ll go and get my kit, Father Ambrose said . He called that his kit. He came back with a kind of portable pyx, opened it and dispatched me without an instant’s hesitation .

 Samuel Beckett's hen has broken the neck of her femur, he said . He added that it was bound to happen. She had fallen, in her laboratory, from the top of a ladder, and broken her neck — . The neck! I cried. What a joy it is to laugh, from time to time, I said. It is peculiar to man .

 This interview with Father Ambrose left me with a painful impression . He was still the same dear man, and yet not the same man, he said . I seemed to have surprised, on his face, a lack of nobility .

 Father with yawning fly and starting eyes, toiling to scatter on the ground his joyless seed, that was no sight for a small boy . Harshly I recalled him to the proprieties. He protested he had knocked twice. If you had knocked a hundred times, I replied, it would not give you the right to come in without being invited. But, he said, I said, You told me to be here at half- past four .

 I want none of your lip, I said. No matter which shirt, I cried, any shirt! Which shoes am I to wear? he said. You have two pairs of shoes, one for Sundays, and one for weekdays, and you ask me which you are to wear . I could have told him to get hell out of that with his dentist, but no, I reasoned gently with him, I spoke with him as with an equal .

 Py said his son was born with bad teeth, and all his life he will have bad teeth . As for me, I was down to my incisors, the nippers . If I had been my son I would have left me long ago .

 I had not yet told her we were leaving. I did not wholly trust her. It was im- portant to leave her in the dark. Then why had I called her? She would have served us dinner in any case, as she did every day. That was understandable. But to tell her we would dine at home, what a blunder. For she knew it already, thought she knew, did know. And as a result of this useless reminder she would sense that some- thing was afoot .

 The Eisner sisters were not bad neighbours, as neigh- bours go . They made a little too much music, that was the only fault I cr ild find with them . What I assert, deny, question, in the present, I still can, but mostly I shall use the various tenses of the past .

 I could see his little- black penis ending in a thin wisp of wetted hair . Perhaps I disgusted him too . I wondered, suddenly rebellious, what compelled me to accept this commission . But I had already accepted it, I had given my word. Too late. Could I not postpone our departure to the following day? Or leave alone? But we would wait till the very last moment, a little before midnight .

 Gaber understood nothing about the messages he carried . He used a code incomprehensible to all but himself . His memory was so bad that his messages had no existence in his head, but only in his notebook .

 When I speak of agents and of messengers in the plural, it is with no guarantee of truth . For I had never seen any other messenger than Gaber nor any other agent than myself . But I supposed we were not the only ones and Gaber must have supposed the same . For the feeling that we were only ones would have been more than we could have borne .

 Martha had insisted, before entering my service, that I permit her to keep her rocking-chair in the kitchen . I had refused, indig- nantly, but seeing she was inflexible, I saw her again . Martha was late to bed and early to rise, it was in the . kitchen that she benefited by it most .

 My weekly supply of lager, half-a-dozen quart bottles, was delivered every Saturday . I never touched them until the next day, for lager must be left to settle after the least disturbance . Of these six bottles Gaber and I, together, had emptied one . There should be five left, plus the remains of a bottle from the previous week .

 The sight of the sight went straight to my heart, but nevertheless I did my duty . He was sitting in the same place, but in a slightly different attitude, his arms on the table and his head on his arms . He rose with a bound that knocked over his chair and uttered the furious words .

 The albums under my arm, I returned to my room. I had spared my son a grave temptation, that of putting in his most cherished stamps, in order to gloat on them, during our journey . Not that his having one or two stamps about him was reprehensible in itself . But it did not positively displease me that my son should give free vent to his grief. It purges. Sorrow does more harm when dumb, to my mind .

 After dinner I drowse. I decided to make the most of them. I took off my coat and shoes, opened my trousers and got in between the sheets. It is lying down in the warmth, in the gloom, that I best pierce the outer turmoil’s veil, discern my quarry, sense what course to follow .

 Of things bursting, merging, avoiding one another, assails me on all sides . Each pinpoint of skin screams a different message, I drown in the spray of phe- nomena . It is at the mercy of these sensations, which happily I know to be illusory, that I have to live and work .

 If I had had colleagues, I might have suspected I had spoken of him to them, as of one destined to occupy us, sooner or later . But I had no colleagues and knew nothing of the circumstances in which I had learnt of his existence . Perhaps I had invented him, I mean found him ready-made in my head .

 Mother Molloy, or Mellose, was not completely foreign to me either, it seemed . But she was much less alive than her son, who God knows was far from being so . What I heard was a first syllable, Mol, followed almost at once by a second, very thick, as though gobbled by the first .

 Molloy was massive and hulking, to the point of misshapenness . He swayed, to and fro, like a bear . Even in open country he seemed to be crashing through jungle . Occasionally he stopped and glared furiously about him .

 A natural end seemed unlikely to me, but then my own natural end, would it not at the same time be his? Modest, I had my doubts . I had no information as to his face. I assumed it was hirsute, craggy and grimacing .

 The Molloy I brought to light, that memorable August Sunday, was certainly not the true denizen of my dark places, for it was not his hour . But so far as the essen- tial features were concerned, I was easy in my mind, the like- ness was there . And the discrepancy could have been still greater for all I cared .

 Could it seriously be supposed that Youdi had confided to Gaber all he knew, or thought he knew (all one to Youdi) about his protege? Assuredly not. He had only revealed what he deemed of relevance for the prompt and proper execution of his orders .

 MoLLOY 117 was angry with his son and wife Martha, Martha, when he refused to eat his soup . He was scarred in the face when he said: 'I don't feel well. What an abominable thing is youth' He then made a joke which pleased him enormously, I laughed .

 The sequel, I said. I looked more atten- tively out of the window . Not only had the rain stopped, that I knew already, but in the west scarves of fine red sheen were mount- ing in the sky . A great joy, it is hardly too much to say, surged over me at the sight of so much beauty .

 She could only be in- sulting when in flight, she said . At times he was almost 118 SAMUEL BECKBTT worthy of me . But he was wrong to invoke the pic. He was still young and inexperienced and I refrained from humbling him .

 He had a temperature. There’s nothing wrong with you, I said. May I go MOLLOY 119 up? he said . But I had turned my phrase badly, mouth was not the word I should have used. How remote Youdi was at that instant.

 Have you shat, my child, I said gently, gently . I gave him an enema, with salt water . He struggled, but not for long . I would never dare invoke it. I was not going to expose myself to thunderbolts which might be fatal .

 How can you hope to shit, i said, when you’ve nothing in your stomach? He protested he had had his lunch . He protested: You ate nothing, I said. You forget we are leaving in an hour or so . I had scored a hit. I let out a bellow which must have been heard by the Eisner sisters. Nothing more. Just another cry in the night .

 Martha watched me in silence, lolling in her rocking-chair . I cleaned up everything after me and turned to the door . Martha said she wanted to go to bed, but she was going to bed .

 She asked me how long I expected to be away. Did she realise I was not setting out alone? I suppose so. I advised her, in terms for me warm, to have a good rest while I was away . Stint neither tea nor sugar, I said, and if by any chance you should happen to need money, apply to Mr Savory. up.

 SAMUEL BECKETT found a pair of duplicates of his favourite stamps on his desk . They were all there, but he decided to go back on his decision, which would deal a blow to his authority .

 This confession has been preying on my mind for some time past. To have made it gives me no relief. I reflected with bitter satisfaction that if my son lay down and died by the wayside, it would it would have none of Molloy .

 A man like me cannot forget, in his evasions, what it is he evades . I went down to the garden and moved about in the almost total darkness . I shook it and put it in my pooket, intending to discard it in the ash-tray, or in the waste-paper basket, later on . But the next day, far from Turdy, I found it . in my pocket and indeed not without satisfaction. For I was able to get a few more puffs out of it .

 SAMUEL BECKETT was haunted by his son's death in the garden . He had no oven, but a simple gas-stove, in the kitchen, but out of service .

 The night-light in the kitchen came from the red chimney which, in Martha’s room, burned eternally at the feet of a litle Virgin carved in wood, hanging on the wall . But perhaps she had gone to sleep. I stooped and applied my ear to the keyhole. I heard nothing, to my great surprise. For my son slept noisily, with open mouth. For this silence was of a nature to occupy my mind, for some little time. I went to my room. I took good care not to open the door.

 All I needed was a butterfly-net to have vaguely the air of a country schoolmaster on convalescent leave . Heavy glittering black boots, which seemed to implore a pair of navy-blue serge trousers, gave the finishing blow to this get-up which otherwise might have appeared, to the uninformed, an example of well-bred bad taste . Conspicuousness is the A B C of my profession .

 There is something about a father that discourages derision . Even grotesque he commands a certain respect . And when he is seen out with his young hopeful, whose face grows longer and longer with every step . He is taken for a widower, the gaudiest colours are of no avail .

 I have a huge bunch of keys, it weighs over a pound . I carry them in the right-hand pocket of my trousers, of my breeches in this case . A massive chain, attached to my braces, prevents me from losing them . Immediately I heard a strangling noise from my son, sleeping .

 A few hours’ sleep however deep are not enough for an organism in the first stages of puberty suffering from stomach trouble . When I began to shake him and help him out of bed, pulling him first by the arms, then by the hair, he turned away from me in fury, to the wall, and dug his nails into the mattress .

 SAMUEL BECKETT's son was crying when he left his mother's home . He was still young, the words of reproach died on my lips . I helped him put on his knapsack. I told him not to forget his raincoat. He began to carry it over his arm, for the moment. I picked up my umbrella. Get on .

 My trees, my bushes, my flower-beds, my tiny lawns, I used to think I loved them. gratefully I fancied. If I sometimes cut a branch, a flower, it was solely for their good, that they might increase in strength and happiness. And I never did it without a pang. Indeed if the truth were known, I did not do it at all, I got Christy to do it. I grew no vegetables. When I said I had turkeys, and so on, I lied. All I had was a few hens.

 I had long since given up going for walks with my son, though I sometimes longed to do so . The least outing with him was torture, he lost his way so easily . Yet when alone he seemed to know all the short cuts . He was back in half the time I would have taken for the journey myself .

 The only walk we regularly took together was that which led us, every Sun- day, from home to church and, mass over, from church to home . I toyed briefly with the idea of attaching him to me by means of a long rope, its two ends tied about our waists .

 SAMUEL BECKETT had to chain his son to me in such a way as to prevent him from ever shaking me off again . It was a simple problem of toils and knots and I could have solved it at a pinch . But already I was called elsewhere by the image of my son no longer behind me, but before me .

 There he was before me, his big feet splayed, his knees sag- ging, his stomach sticking out, his chest sunk, his chin in the air, his mouth open, in the attitude of a veritable half-wit . As for his raincoat, instead of carrying it folded over his arm, or flung across his shoulder, as I had told him, he had rolled it in a ball and was holding it with both hands, on his belly . I myself must have looked as if only the support of my umbrella and the wicket were keeping me from falling .

 He deserved his scout-knife . Don’t tell me you’ve left it behind, I said, with pride and satisfaction, tapping his pocket . Naturally he did not answer . Prompt obedience was contrary to his habits . He gave it to me . It was for his own good, to save him from getting lost .

 SAMUEL BECKETT has no intention of relating the various adventures which befell us, me and my son, together and singly, before we came to the Molloy country . But that is not what stops me. All is tedious, in this relation that is forced upon me. But I shall conduct it in my own way, up to a point .

 It is not always easy to follow, in its reasonings and decrees, but I follow it none the less, more or less . For it is within me and exhorts me to continue to the end the faithful servant I have always been, of a cause that is not mine . And this with hatred in my heart, and scorn, of my master and his designs .

 Moran: "I was saying I would not relate all the vicissitudes of the journey from my country to Molloy’s, for the simple reason that I do not intend to. And in writing these lines I know in what danger I am of offending him whose favour I know 1 should court, now more than ever. But I write them all the same, and with a firm hand weaving inexorably back and forth and devouring my page with the indifference of a shuttle. Quiet Moran, quiet. No emotion, please, please .

 It would not surprise me if 1 deviated, in the pages to follow, from the true and exact succession of events . But I do not think even Sisyphus is required to scratch himself, or to groan, as the fashion is now, always at the same appointed places . And perhaps he thinks each journey is the first . This would keep hope alive, would it not, hellish hope .

 In modern countries this is what I think is called a commune, or a canton, but there exists with us no abstract and generic term for such territorial subdivisions . To express them we have another system, of singular beauty and simplicity, which consists in saying Bally and Ballyba when you mean Bally plus its domains .

 The land did not lend itself to cultiva- tion . The pastures, in spite of the torrential rains, were exceedingly meagre and strewn with boulders . Only quitchweed grew in abundance and a curious bitter blue grass fatal to cows and horses .

 SAMUEL BECKETT found the butt of Father Ambrose’s cigar . He lit it, took a few puffs, threw it away . He showed his son how to use his pocket-compass . He was behaving well, better than I had hoped . The weather was kind. We easily managed our ten miles a day .

 The right thing would have been to travel by night and hide during the day, at least in the early stages . But the weather was so fine I could not bring myself to do it . The sounds my son made during his sleep hindered me considerably .

 The Yerk affair, which took me nearly three months to conclude successfully, was over on the day I suc- ceeded in possessing myself of his tiepin and destroying it . I have never had to deal with a woman. I regret it.

 SAMUEL BECKETT never saw one of them again, subsequently, not a single one . The directions which Gabcr must have given me with reference to this had gone clean out of my head . I lost interest in my patients, once I had finished with them . I don’t know what became of him. I can see him still, looking after me .

 I had his address just as he had mine. I would send him a telegram. But was there a telegraph in Ballyba? I also told myself, being only human, that the longer I took to find Molloy the greater my chances of remembering what I was to do with him. And we would have peaceably pursued our way on foot, but for the following incident .

 The pain in question was not altogether new to me. For I had felt it before, in my bath- room, when giving my son his enema . But then it had only attacked me once and never recurred, till now . And I went to sleep again wondering, by way of lullaby, whether it had been the same knee then as the one which had just excruciated me, or the other .

 The anchylosis was not total! But was it the same one that had waked 140 SAMUEL BECKETT me early in the night? I could not have sworn it was. It was not painful. It simply refused to bend. The pain, having warned me several times in vain, had no more to say .

 When you can neither stand nor sit with comfort, you take refuge in the horizontal, like a child in its mother’s lap . You explore it as never before and find it possessed of unsuspected delights . In short it becomes infinite. And if in spite of all you come to tire of it in the end, you have only to stand up, or indeed sit up, for a few seconds. Such are the advantages of a local and painless paralysis .

 The sky sinks in the morning, this fact has been in- sufficiently observed . It stoops, as if to get a better look, before it sets out . My son’s replies were often beside the point. I could do so easily, so easily .

 SAMUEL BECKETT told him to go to Hole, he said, fifteen miles away, and buy a bicycle . But there are millions of bicycles in Hole ! What kind of bicycle? He reflected . If you can’t find one second-hand? I said at last, what will you do?

 He did not know I was ill. Besides I was not ill. I could have counted the money I had left. But what use would that have been? Did I even know the amount I had brought with me? No. To me too I cheerfully applied the maieutic method. Did I know how much I had spent? No .

 He said he had four MOLLO Y 143 pounds ten shillings . Count them, he counted them, I said, and counted them . Why do you think I have given you all that money? I said. To buy a bicycle, he said, without hesitation . Do you imagine a second-hand bicycle costs four pounds ten £10? I don’t know either . But that was not the point. I said .

 Go to Hole, he said, fifteen miles away . He had not yet grasped that the bicycle was for him . But in the end he had the whole thing off pat . So much so he actually asked me what he was to do if he had not enough money .

 I'm sick of the sight of you, I said, that's what’s wrong. And I asked him what he was waiting for. I don’t feel well, he said. When he asked me how I was I said noth- ing, and when no one asked him anything he announced he was not feeling well . He could never have guessed what to do with the bicycle once he had it .

 He stopped and stared at me, his head on one side like a parrot, utterly bewildered apparently . Foolishly, I made to stoop, to pick up a stone or a piece of wood or a clod, anything in the way of a projectile, and nearly fell . I reached up above my head, broke off a live bough and hurled it violently in his direction . He spun round and took to his heels. Perhaps he was afraid I would run after him. And indeed, I think there is something terrifying about the way I run, with my head flung back, my teeth clenched, my elbows bent to

 The day seemed very long. I missed my son! I busied myself as best I could. I took advantage of being alone at last, with no other witness than God, to masturbate. I circled the shelter several times, thinking the exercise would benefit my knee . I hope he enjoyed it more than I did. I asked myself certain questions. Why had I not told my son to bring me back something for my leg? Why did I hidden my condition from him? Was I secretly glad that this had happened to me?

 Stretched out in the shelter, I brooded on the undertaking in which I was embarked . I tried agais to remember what I was to do with Molloy when I found him . I lay down and looked at my reflection, then I washed my face and hands . I waited for my image to come back, I watched it as it trembled towards an ever increasing likeness .

 Much over fifty-five when he took off his hat, held it for a moment in his hand, then put it back on his head . He had a huge shock of dirty snow-white hair . His accent was that of a foreigner or of one who had lost habit of speech .

 I wished I could have been in the middle of a desert, under the midday sun, to look after him till he was only a dot, on the edge of the horizon . I stayed out in the air for a long time. Every now and then I listened. But my son did not come. I went back into the shelter and lay down, under my son’s raincoat, under his raincoat .

 No change, Moran, no change. This may seem impossible. But I think not. This is not. no better, but it was no worse either. That is to say it was perhaps a little worse, without my being in a condition to realize it, for the simple reason .

 I consumed the greater part of this second day in these vain comings and goings, the vigils and imagin- ings, but not all of it . For I lay down from time to time in the shelter, which I was beginning to think of as my little house, to ruminate in peace on certain things, and notably on my provisions of food which were rapidly running out .

 What I saw was more like a crumbling, a frenzied collapsing of all that had always protected me from all I was condemned to be . Or it was like a kind of clawing towards a light and countenance I could not name, that I had once known and denied . But the idea of ageing was not exactly the one which offered itself to me .

 SAMUEL BECKETT was hailed by a man on his way to the town of Teneriffe . The voice was so near that I started violently, but after this one violent start I collected myself and . continued to busy myself with my fire as if nothing had happened .

 The crackling of the fire allowed the man to come right up to me, without my knowledge . The branch was thick and full of sap and did not burn when I stuck it in the fire . But little by little I formed an idea of the type of individual it was .

 He wore a thick navy-blue suit (double-breasted) of hideous cut and a pair of out- rageously wide black shoes . The fringed extremities of a dark muffler, seven feet long at least, wound several times round his neck, hung down his back . He ha*d a narrow-brimmed dark blue felt hat on his head, with a fish-hook and an artificial fly stuck in the band, which produced a highly sporting effect .

 152 SAMUEL BECKETT found his head in a pulp after being attacked by a man with a stick . His body too grew dim, as if coming asunder . He no longer resembled me .

 His ankles were bony, like my own, but there was still some play in the hip joints . He was wearing suspenders, one of which had come undone and was hang- ing loose . I dragged him into the copse, with frequent rests on the way, but without letting go his legs, so as not to have to stoop again to pick them up . Then dismantled the shelter and threw the branches over the body .

 I was not long in finding MOLLO Y 153 them, scattered on the ground, the ring having broken . When a key was beyond my reach I took hold of the grass and dragged myself over to it . And I wiped each key on the grass, before putting it in my pocket, whether it needed wiping or not .

 The day passed tranquilly, without incident . The only thing that re-lieved the monotony of this third day was a dog .

 I mended my hat, that is to say with the tin-opener I pierced a new hole beside the old one and made fast the elastic again . And I also mended the ring, twisting the two pieces together, and I slipped on the keys . And to kill time I asked myself a number of questions and tried to answer them .

 I declare the foregoing to have been written with a firm and even satisfied hand, and a mind calmer than it has been for a long time . For I shall be far away, before these lines are read, in a place where no one will dream of coming to look for me . And then Youdi will take care of me, he will not let me be punished for a fault committed in the execution of my duty .

 He was pushing a bicycle which, when he had joined me, he let fall with a gesture signifying he could bear no more . I had to admit it must once have been quite a good bicycle . But there was something so strange in his silence that I looked up at him. His eyes were starting out of his head. What’s the matter, I said, is my fly open? He let go the bicycle again. He picked it up. What happened to you? he said. I had a fall, he said .

 I had a puncture two miles from Hole, he said, I walked the rest of the way . I really did not care in the least whether he had been fooled into paying for the bicycle three or four times what it was worth or whether on the other hand he had appropriated the best part of the pur- chase money .

 I tried to sit down on the MOLLOY 157 carrier. The foot of my stiff leg tried to sink into the ground, into the grave . I propped myself up on one of the bags. I was still too low. I added the other . Its bulges dug into my buttocks. I felt a sharp pain in my shin . I was all tangled up in the back wheel. I cried. My stocking was torn and my leg bleeding. Happily it was the sick leg . It was even per- haps a blessing in disguise .

 The bicycle was all right apparently, the back wheel slightly buckled perhaps . I at once saw the error I had made . It was to have settled down in my seat, with my feet clear of the ground, before we moved off . I let myself slide to one side till the foot of my good leg touched the ground .

 I would never have got there alone. It was thanks to my son. He was clumsy, stupid, slow, dirty, untruthful, deceitful, prodigal, unfilial, but he did not abandon me. I thought about myself, much, as we went along, and in the evening, when we camped, while he made himself useful, and when he went away, leaving me alone .

 A flock of black shorn sheep strayed about them, unafraid . Leaving my son on the side of the road I went towards them, across the grass . The shepherd watched me as I came, without getting up. The dog too, without barking .

 The shepherd drew the pipe from his mouth and pointed the stem at the ground, several times . The shepherd raised one hand, it wavered an instant as if over a map, then stiffened . The sheep were losing interest in 160 SAMUEL BECKETT .

 The shepherd is silent and the dog unheeded as he counts the flock as they pass . The shepherd counts them as they go by, though he knows not one is missing . Then he turns towards his cottage, the kitchen door is open, the lamp is burning, he goes in and sits down at the table .

 That night I had a violent scene with my son. I do not remem- ber about what . At the time it must have seemed a scene like any other, that's all I know . But the next day I realised my mistake. For waking early I found myself alone, in the shelter, I who was always the first to wake. And what is more my instinct told me I had been alone for some considerable time .

 SAMUEL BECKETT says he wanted his son to learn double-entry book-keeping . He also wanted him to keep an eye out, on his expeditions, for a second bicycle, light and inexpensive . And he always had a far greater sum in his pocket than was strictly necessary . But on examining my pocket-book I found it contained no more than fifteen shillings .

 I was alone, with my bag, my umbrella (which he might easily have taken too) and fifteen shillings . I remained for several days in the place where my son had abandoned me, eating my last pro- visions . And on and off, for fun, and the better to scatter them to the winds, I dallied with the hopes that spring eternal .

 At the thought of the punishments Youdi might inflict upon me I was seized by such a mighty fit of laughter . I shook, with mighty silent laughter and my features composed in their wonted sadness and calm . But my whole body shook, and even my legs, so that I had to lean against a tree, or against a bujW when the fit came on me standing, my umbrella being no longer sufficient to keep me from falling . And I said. To think I might be there now, but for my misfortune!

 Moran, Jacques, home, instanter. probably have found blackberries and mushrooms, but I had no wish for them . Moran re- mained all day stretched out in the shelter, vaguely regretting my son’s raincoat, and I crawled out in . the evening to have a good laugh at the lights of Bally . Gaber, Gaber's arrival put a stop to these frolics . Moran was dressed as when he had last seen him. Unless it was Sunday again .

 Moran had not shaved since the day his son brought back the bicycle from Hole . Gaber examined him laboriously from head to foot and said, Moran, home, instanter . Moran cried to him that I could not move, that I was sick and that I should have to be carried, that my son had abandoned me .

 Moran, he said, you are beginning to give me a serious pain in the arse. Moran fell . Gaber gave me a shove. He had not intended to make me fall, he did41ot realise the state I was in, he had only wanted to push me away . He wanted to help me up, I pushed him away. I did not try to get up. I let out a roar. He bent over me bent over him. I saw it lift, the lips open, and almost at the same time I heard words of solicitude, at a great distance . He was not brutal,* I knew

 Moran said Gaber told him what he thought was the words of his son . Moran said: 'I cut you short. had told you something, I said, then I cut it short. Short?' Moran said. Do you think he meant human life? I listened. Perhaps he didn’t mean human life . Moran was alone. My hands were full of grass and earth I had torn up unwittingly, was still tearing up. I desisted, yes, the second I realised what I had done, what I was doing, such a nasty thing . That night I set out for home.

 SAMUEL BECKETT was ordered home in August, in September at the latest . It was spring when he got there, I had therefore been all winter on the way . Anyone else would have lain down in the snow, firmly re- solved never to rise again . I used to think that men would never get the better of me. I still think I am cleverer than things .

 The disease, whatever it was, was dormant! How can such things be? But to return to the flies, I like to think of those that hatch out at the beginning of winter, within doors, and die shortly after . They must die very young, without having been able to lay .

 Certain questions of a theological nature preoccupied me strangely . What value is to be attached to the theory that Eve sprang, not from Adam’s rib, but from a tumour in the fat of his leg . Does it really matter which hand is employed to absterge the podex?

 Father who art no more in heaven than on earth or in hell, I neither want nor desire that thy name be hallowed, thou knowest best what suits thee .

 The most striking feature of the dance was its very complicated figures, traced in flight . The outgoing bees danced too. It was no doubt their way of saying, I understand, or Don’t worry about me. But away from the hive, and busily at work, the bees did not dance .

 The purpose of the hum 'is not to emphasise the dance, but on the contrary to vary it' The same figure exactly differs in meaning according to the hum that goes with it .

 Physically speaking it seemed to me I was now becoming rapidly unrecognisable. And when I passed my hands over my face, in a characteristic and now more than ever pardonable gesture, the face my hands felt was not my face any more, and the hands my face felt were my hands no longer. And yet the gist of the sensation was the same as in the far-off days when I was well- shaven and perfumed and proud of my intellectual’s soft white hands . And this belly I did not know remained my belly, my old belly, thanks to I know not what intuition .

 I have always been very sensitive to clothing, though not in the least a dandy . I had not to complain of mine, tough and of good cut, but whose fault was that? And I had to part with my straw, not made to resist the rigours of winter, and with my stockings .

 When it rained, when it snowed, then I found myself faced with the following dilemma . Was I to go on leaning on my umbrella and get drenched or was I to stop and take shelter under my open umbrella? I could have gone on, very slowly, using the um- brella no longer as a support, but as a shelter. But I was so accus- tomed, on the one hand to the perfect watertightness of my expen- sive umbrella, that the dilemma remained entire, for me .

 Sometimes I pushed on, leaning on the umbrella, getting drenched, but most often I stopped dead, opened the umbrella above me and waited for it to be over . Then I got equally drenched. But that was not the point. And if it had suddenly begun to rain manna I would have waited, stock-still, under my umbrella . I did not like proper shelters, made of boughs, any more. But when I was inside them I could think of nothing but my son’s raincoat, I literally saw it, I saw nothing else .

 I was waiting quietly, under my umbrella, for the weather to clear, when I was brutally accosted from behind . I had been in a place where I was all alone . The thought of taking to the road, to try and get a lift, never crossed my mind . I reached home with my fifteen shillings intact. I had to suffer other molestations than this, but I shall not record them .

 He asked me where to go to the Turdy Madonna, I said. He was lost. He said there were no Madonna in the length and breadth of it. But where is the place in which there is no Madonna? He said it’s thanks to her I lost my infant boy, and kept his mamma .

 Humbly to ask a favour of people who are on the point of knocking your brains out sometimes produces good results . But I had gone a little too far, for the vicious look came back into his eye . 'I have vowed to drag myself miserably to her niche, and thank her,' he said . 'A little hot tea,' I implored, without sugar or milk, to revive me .

 It is a great thing to own a plot in perpetuity, a very great thing indeed . If only that were the only perpetuity . My hens were dead too, I knew they were dead .

 The company had cat off the light. They have offered to let me have it back. But I told them they could keep it. That is the kind of man I have become. I am clearing out. Perhaps I shall meet Molloy. My son was well. He would be. in the same way, except the grey one perhaps, that was the only difference .

 I have been a man long enough, I shall not put up with it any more . I shall never light this lamp again. I am going to blow it out and go into the garden. I have crutches now. I shall go faster, all will go faster. They will be happy days. I will learn. All there was to sell I have sold. But I had heavy debts .

 It told me to write the report . Does this mean I am freer now than I was? I do not know. I shall soon be quite dead at last in spite of all . Perhaps next month . Then it will be the month of April or of May .

 I must be on my guard against throes, but I am less given to them now, since coming here . Of course I still have my little fits of impatience, from time to time, I must still be on guard against them, for the next fortnight or three weeks . While waiting I shall tell myself stories, if I can, they will be calm, calm, there will be no ugliness or beauty or fever in them any more . I am satisfied, there, I have enough, I am repaid .

 T never knew how to play, till now. I longed to, but I knew it was impossible. And yet I often tried. I turned on all the lights, I took a good look all round, I began to play with what 1 saw. People and things ask nothing better than to play . But it was not long before £ MALONE DIES 181 found himself alone, in the dark .

 I think I shall be able to tell myself four stories, each one on a different theme . One about a man, another about a woman, a third about a thing and finally one about an animal . Perhaps I shall not have time to finish. On the other hand perhaps I shall finish too soon .

 All my life long I have put off this reckon- ing, saying too soon, too soon . But can I really resign myself to the possibility of my dying without leaving an inventory behind? There I am back at my old quibbles. Presumably 1 can, since I intend to take the risk .

 The case is reversed, the way well charted and little hope of coming to its end . Aesthetics are therefore on my side, at least a certain kind of aesthetics . I find it hard to get used to that idea . But I have high hopes .

 A bright light is not necessary, a taper is all one needs to live in strangeness, if it faithfully burns . It is not a room in a hospital, or in a madhouse, I can feel that. Perhaps I came in for the room on ihe death of whoever was in it before me .

 SAMUEL BECKETT has lived in a kind of coma for the last six months . The loss of consciousness for him was never any great loss . But perhaps I was stunned with a blow, on the head, in a forest perhaps . Now it is the present I must establish, before I am avenged .

 When I have completed my inventory, if my death is not ready for me then, I shall write my memoirs. There is a cupboard I have never looked into. My possessions are in a corner, in a little heap. With my long stick I can rummage in them, draw them to me, send them back. My bed is by the window. I lie turned towards it most of the time. I see roofs and sky, a glimpse of street too, if I crane. But are they near? I don't know. I do not see the sea either, but I hear it when it is high.

 The door half opens, a hand puts a dish on the little table left there for that purpose, takes away the dish of the previous day, and the door closes again . This is done for me every day, at the same time probably . When I want to eat I hook the table with my stick and draw it to me . I eat it one time out of two, out of three, on an average . When my chamber-pot is full I put it on the table beside the dish . Then I go twenty-four hours without a pot, then I have two pots .

 She is an old woman. I don’t know why she is good to me. I believe her to be even older than I. I succeeded in the end in getting them into her head, my needs and my wants .

 I call myself an octogenarian, but I cannot prove it . Perhaps I am only a quinquagenarian, or a quadragen- arian . My body is what is called, unadvisedly perhaps, impotent, there is virtually nothing it can do .

 The man’s name is Saposcat, like his father's. Like his Christian name? I don’t know. He will not need one. He was not good at his lessons, neither could he see the use of them. He attended his classes with his mind elsewhere, or blank. He liked sums, but not the way they were taught. What he liked was the manipulation of concrete numbers .

 The life of the Saposcats was full of axioms, of which one at least established the criminal absurdity of a garden without roses and with its paths and lawns uncared for .

 Mr. Saposcat took over the erroneous figure, murmuring it over and over to himself . It was as though the Saposcats drew the strength to live from the prospect of their impotence .

 Starting from a given theme their minds laboured in unison . They made use of tlie spoken word in much the same way as the guard of a train makes use of his flags, or of his lantern .

 SAMUEL BECKETT has tried to reflect on the beginning of his story . There are things I do not understand, but nothing to signify I can go on . After that mud-bath I shall be better able to endure a world unsullied by my presence. What a way to reason. My eyes, I shall open my eyes, look at the little heap of my possessions, give my body the old orders .

 The first time an exasperated master threatened him with a cane, Sapo snatched it from his hand and threw it out of the window, which was closed, for it was winter . This was enough to justify his expulsion . But Sapo was not expelled, either then or later . I must try and discover, when I have time to think about it quietly, why Sapo wasn't expelled when he so richly deserved to be .

 Even his teachers could not help thinking he had a remarkable head . But he could not endure the look in Sapo’s eyes and went out of his way not to meet it . Sapo loved nature, took an interest in animals and plants and willingly raised his eyes to the sky, day and night .

 A light has just gone on in one of the two windows I can see always, without raising my head from the pillow . For an instant I could see the woman coming and going, then she drew the curtain . Until tomorrow I shall not see her again, her shadow perhaps from time to time . The man has not yet ^ome home .

 Sapo’s phlegm, his silent ways, were not of a nature to please . In the midst of tumult, at school and at home, he remained motionless in his place, often standing, and gazed straight before him with eyes as pale and unwavering as a gull's . People wondered what he could brood on thus, hour after hour .

 A little less well endowed with strength and courage he too would have abandoned and despaired of ever knowing what manner of being he was, and hcAv he was going to live, and lived vanquished, blindly, in a mad world .

 The last thing that counts is the last, but it's the last that counts . Here truly is the air I needed, a lively tenuous air, far from the nourishing murk that is killing me .

 The impending dawn. I fell asleep. But I do not want to sleep. There is no time for sleep in my time-table. Coma is for the living. The living . The little cloud drifting before their glorious sun will darken the earth .

 I was born grave as others syphilitic. And gravely I struggled to be grave no more, to live, to invent, I know what I mean . But at each fresh attempt I lost my head, fled to my shadows as to sanctuary, to his lap who can neither live nor suffer the sight of others living . After the fiasco, the solace, the repose, I began again, to try and live .

 What I sought was the rapture of vertigo, the letting go, the fall, the gulf, the relapse to darkness . To show myself rjow, on the point of vanishing, at the same time as the stranger, and by the same grace, that would be no ordinary last straw . Then live, long enough to feel, behind my closed eyes, other eyes close .

 There is a choice of images. I presume it is an obsession. I see then I had attributed to myself certain objects no longer in my possession, as far as I can see. But might they not have MALONE DIES 197 rolled behind a piece of furniture? That would surprise me. A boot, for example, can a boot roll behind a furniture? And yet I see only one boot .

 In this room, to the best of my knowledge, there is only one piece of furniture capable of intervening between me and njy posses- sions, I refer to the cupboard . The cupboard, far from containing my boot, is empty . I am now without this boot, just as I am without certain other objects of less value .

 The last of Samuel Becketet's life should have living for its theme, that is all, I know what I mean . After all it is not important not to finish, there are worse things that velleities .

 All I ask is to know, before I abandon him whose life has so well begun, that my death and mine alone prevents him from living on, from winning, losing, joying, suffering- ing, rotting and dying . That is what you might call taking a reef in your sails .

 The search for myself is ended! I am buried in the world, I knew I would find my place there one day, the old world cloisters me, victorious . But I am not wise. For the wise thing now would be to let go, at this instant of happiness .

 The Lamberts found it difficult to live, I mean to make ends meet . There was the man, the woman and two children, a boy and a girl . The father was known as Big Lambert, and big he was indeed . Big Lambert had not a tooth in his head and smoked his cigarettes in a cigarette- holder, wftiile regretting his pipe .

 His great days then fell in December and January, and from February onwards he waited impatiently for the return of that season, the principal event of which is unquestionably the Saviour’s birth, in a stable . Then he would set forth, hugging under his arm, in their case, the great knives so lovingly whetted before the fire the night before, and in his pocket, wrapped in paper, the apron destined to protect his Sunday suit while he worked .

 The farm was in a hollow, flooded in winter and in summer burnt to a cinder . Lambert continued to expatiate, to his near and dear ones, of an evening, while the lamp burned low, on the specimen he had slaugh- tered, until the day he was summoned to slaughter another .

 Lambert persisted in dreading for his pigs, though every passing year proved him wrong . Daylight and fresh air he dreaded for them too . And it was finally a weak pig, blind and lean, that he lay on its back in the box, having tied its legs ‘and killed’

 The 4 voman, pausing an instant between two tasks, or in the midst of one, flung up her arms and, in the same breath, let them fall again . Then she began to toss them about in a way difficult to describe . The movements resembled those, at once frantic and slack, of an arm shaking a duster, or a rag .

 Sapo remained alone, by the window, the bowl of goat’s milk on the table before him, forgotten . The room was dark in spite of the door and window open on the great outer light .

 There were several hens, all grey and so alike in other respects that Sapo’s eye, avid of resemblances, could not tell be- tween them . Sometimes she was followed by a second, a third and even a fourth, bearing no likeness to her .

 It was quite possible there were several grey hens, and yet only one in the habit of coming to the kitchen . It was possible there was only one grey hen, even at feeding-time, which would have clinched the matter .

 Long line of tattered MALONE DIES 205 washing, swaying and drying in the sun . Sapo went, often unnoticed, in spite of his strange walk, his halts and sudden starts .

 "It was difficult for Sapo to glide unseen, even in the deep shadow of the trees that bordered the stream, even supposing him to have been capable of gliding, for his movements were rather those of one floundering in a quag . And on each face bent to the earth there played perhaps a little smile, a little rictus rather, but without malice, each wondering perhaps if the others felt the same thing and making the resolve to ask them, at their next meeting .

 When I stop, as just now, the noises begin again, strangely loud, those whose turn it is. So that I seem to have again the hearing of my boyhood. was not the better to think, or the closer to pore upon his dream, but simply because the voice had ceased that tefld him to go on. Then with his pale eyes he stared down at the earth, blind to its beauty, and to its utility . But these stations were short-lived, for he was still young .

 From the hills another joy came down, I mean the brief scattered lights that sprang up on their slopes at nightfall, merging in blurs scarcely brighter thar^the sky, less bright than the stars, and which the palest moon extinguished . The dogs of the valley replied with their gross bay all fangs and jaws and foam .

 SAMUEL BECKETT writes about himself with the same pencil and in the same exercise book as about him . It is in order to know where I have got to, where he has got to .

 It is right that he too should have his little chronicle, his memories, his reason, and be able to recognize the good in the bad, the bad in the worst, and so grow gently old all down the unchanging days and die one day like any other day, only shorter. That is my excuse. But there must be others, no less excellent. I can scarcely even see the window-pane, or the wall forming with it so sharp a contrast that it often looks like the edge of an abyss .

 MALONE DIES 209 to him who saved me, twenty centuries in advance? The final bawl lends colour to this view .

 The exercise- book had fallen to the ground. I took a long time to find it. It was under the bed. It is not pierced through and through, but it is in a bad way. I hope it will see me out. From now on I shall write on both sides of the page.

 Mr. Saposcat is trained to a hair, said Mr Sapo, said Sapo . Mrs. Sapo prayed for his success, silently for her husband would not have approved .

 One day Mr. Saposcat sold himself a fountain-pen, at a dis- count. He took off the long cardboard lid and showed the pen to his wife . He wrapped with expert hands the box in tissue-paper and slipped over it a narrow rubber band .

 Mr. Saposcat said might it not be better if we just lent him the pen and told him he could keep it for his own, if he passed? Then we must do so at once, said Mrs. Sapo. was not pleased . This conversation was renewed the next day .

 Sapo saw the mule’s black corpse lying on its side, as was to be expected . The forelegs were stretched out straight and rigid, the hind drawn up under the belly . The yawning jaws, the wreathed lips, the enormous teeth, the bulging eyes, composed a striking death's-head .

 The mule predicted that it would drop down dead at the first ploughing . Lambert was a con- noisseur of mules . Lambert looked the mule full in the eye, at the gates of the slaughter-house, and saw it could still be made to serve . As Lambert unfolded his story the slaughter house loomed larger and larger .

 The face of the earth, on which it had plodded its life away, would see it no more, toiling before the plough, or the dray . Big Lambert would soon be able to plough and harrow the place where it lay, with another mule, or horse, or an old ox, bought at the Knacker’s yard . Edmund and his mother passed each other by in silence .

 Seeing Sapo she first thought he was her daughter . Then her thoughts flew to the absent one . She emptied out the lentils on the table and began to sort them . But suddenly with a furious gesture she swept the two together .

 She could have gone on sorting her lentils all night and never achieved her purpose, which was to free them from all admixture . But the moment comes when one desists, because it is the wisest thing to do, discouraged, but not to the extent of undoing all that has been done .

 Mrs Lambert was breathing hard. Little devil! she cried. But Sapo was already far away, trailing his hand in the high waving meadow grasses . Hens on the other hand are more stubborn livers and some have been observed, with the head already off, to cut a few last capers before collapsing . Pigeons too are less impression- able and sometimes even struggle, before choking to death .

 Edmund Lambert would have gladly slept with his sister, the father too . But something held them back . Mrs. Lambert, the only member of the household who had no desire to sleep with anybody, saw it coming with indifferer- ence .

 The Lamberts! I shall try and go on all the same, a little longer, my thoughts elsewhere, I can’t stay here. I shall hear myself talking, afar off, from my far mind, talking of myself, MALONE DIES 217 .

 Her mind was a press of formless questions, mingl- ing and crumbling limply away . Some seemed to have to do with her daughter, that minor worry, now lying sleepless in her bed, listening . But it was only the next day that she decided to tell her what Sapo had told her .

 I was sorry he had not a cat, or a young dog, or better still an old dog . But all he had to offer in the way of dumb companions was a pink and grey parrot . He used to try and teach it to say Nihil in intellects etc. This annoyed Jackson, who kept nagging at it to begin all over again .

 When young the old filled me with wonder and awe. Bawling babies are what dumbfound me now. The house is full of them finally. Suave mari magno, especially for the old salt . If I had the use of my body I would throw it out of the window .

 SAMUEL BECKETT says he is a prey to hallucinations pure and simple . But the noises that I say rise up from below, the steps that he says come climbing towards me, do they really do so?

 I enjoy a kind of night and day, admittedly, often it is even pitch dark, but in rather a different way from the way to which I fancy I was accustomed, before I found myself here . The light that reigns in this den is bizarre, and of which the least that can be said is that it is bizarre .

 The sun, instead of rising higher and higher in the sky as I confidently expected, calmly set, and night, the passing of which I had just celebrated after my fashion, calmly fell again . Of being the dawn, turned out in a very short time to be the dusk .

 I myself am very grey, I even sometimes have the feeling that I emit grey, in the same way as my sheets for example . Naturally black is black the whole world over, but mine too has its alternations, I will not deny it, its dusks and dawns .

 The noises too, cries, steps, doors, murmurs, cease for whole days, their days . Mem, look for a match in my possessions, and see if burns. of combustion. Sometimes sometimes it seems to me I am in a head and that these eight, no, six, these six planes that enclose me arc of solid bone .

 What mv stick lacks is a little prehensile proboscis like the nocturnal tapir’s. without haven or craft or matter or understanding . I should really lose my pencil more often, it might do me good, I might be more cheerful .

 Little by little my little pencil dwindles, inevitably, and the day is fast approaching when nothing will remain but a fragment too tiny to hold . So I write as lightly as I can, but the lead is hard and would leave no trace if I wrote too lightly . But I say to myself. Between a hard lead with which one dare not write too lightly, if a trace is to be left, and a soft fat lead which blackens the page almost without touching it .

 When I open staring wide my eyes I see at the confines of this restless gloom a gleam and shimmering as of bones, which was not hitherto the case, to the best of my knowledge . But now they seem to be all gone, quite gone, and if there were no flowers on the ceiling there was no doubt something else, cupids perhaps, gone too .

 In my head I suppose all was streaming and emptying away as through a sluice, to my great joy, until finally nothing remained, either of Malone or of the other . I rejoiced at the thought that I now knew what I had to do, I whose every move has always been a groping, and whose motionlessness too was a kind of groping .

 J. in me up 10 the elbow, but gentle, and as though sleeping . Soon it stirs, wakes, fondles, clutches, ransacks, ravages, avenging its failure to scatter me with one sweep . But 1 have felt so many strange things, so many baseless things assuredly, that they are perhaps better left unsaid .

 Be born, that’s 226 SAMUEL BECKETT the brainwave now, that is to say live long enough to get acquainted with free carbonic gas, then say thanks for the nice time and go . That has always been my dream at bottom, all the things that have always been his dream . And if I tell of me and of that other who is my little one, it is as always for want of love .

 MALONE DIES 227: 'I have taken a long time to find him again, but I have found him. How did I know it was he, I don’t know. I ran him down in the heart of the town, sitt ; ng on a bench'

 Those were the days, quick to night and well beguiled with the search for warmth and reasonably edible scraps . And you imagine it will be so till the end. But suddenly all begins to rage and roar again, you are lost in forests of high threshing ferns .

 The posture is completely lacking in abandon, and but for the absence of bonds you might think he was bo^nd to the bench . The tails of this coat literally sweep the ground and rustle like a train, when he walks . The thread of the sleeves too is bare and frayed into long waving strands that flutter in the wind .

 The buttons are not so much genuine buttons as little wooden cylinders two or three inches long, with a hole in the middle for the thread . The material of this coat looks like felt, and the various dints and bulges inflicted upon it by the spasms and contortions of the body subsist long after the fit is past .

 The coat and hat have this much in common, that whereas the coat is too big, the hat is too small . The edges of the split brim close on the brow like the jaws of a trap . The hat is attached, by a string, for safety, to the topmost button of the coat .

 For Sapo— no, I can’t call him that any more, and I even wonder how I was able to stomach such a name till now . 230 SAMUEL BECKETT for Macmann, that’s not much better but there is no time to lose . Macmann might be stark staring naked under this surtout for all anyone would be any the wiser .

 At this hour then erotic craving accounts for the majority of couples . But soon they come to the appointed place, at home or at some other home, or abroud, as the saying is, in a public place, or in a doorway in view of possible rain . So there they are for a few hours in safety. Then the drowsiness, the little memorandum book with its little special pencil, the yawned goodbyes. Some even take a cab to get more quickly to the rendezvous or, when the fun is over, home .

 The cabman too, all alone on his box ten feet from the ground, his knees covered at all seasons and in all weathers with a kind of rug as a rule originally brown, the same precisely which he has just snatched from the rump of his horse . Furious and livid perhaps from want of passengers, the least fare seems to excite him to a frenzy .

 There are not five hundred different kinds of passengers, for there are five hundred types of passengers . And so they hasten, the horse, the driver and the passenger, towards the appointed 232 SAMUEL BECKETT place, by the shortest route or deviously, through the press of other misplaced persons .

 It is no doubt all the same to Macmann whether it is spring or autumn, unless he prefers summer to winter or inversely, which is improbable . But it must not be thought he will never move again, out of this place and attitude, for he has still the whole of his old age before him . He will therefore rise, whether he likes it or not, and proceed by other places to another pjacc, and then by others still to yet another . And so on, on, for long years .

 On the fifth day, when the problem is how to rise, the fourth and third do not matter any more, all that matters is 'how to rise' For it is not as if he possessed the means of accumulating, in a single day, enough food to keep him alive for three weeks or a month, a drop in a bucket .

 At long intervals they close, with the gentle suddenness of flesh that tightens, often without anger, and closes on itself . Then you see the old lids all red and worn that seem hard set to meet, for there are four, two for each lachrymal . And perhaps it is then he sees the heaven of the old dream, the sea and of the earth too, and the spasms of the waves .

 I believe I have now reached what is called the month of May, for May comes from Maia, hell, I remember that too, goddess of increase and plenty, of increase at last, for plenty comes later, with the harvest . I was still alive and breathing in and out the air of earth .

 For a mere local phenomenon is something I would not have noticed, having been nothing but a series of local phenomena all my life, without any result . But my fingers too write in other latitudes and the air that breathes through my pages and turns them without my knowing, when I doze off, is not the air of this second-last abode, and a mercy it is .

 The best way to pass unnoticed is to lie down flat and not move, and so there I am, who always thought I would shrivel and shrivel, more and more, until in the end I could be almost buried in a casket, swelling . No matter, what matters is that in spite of my 236 SAMUEL BECKETT stories I continue to fit in this room .

 'I simply believe I can say nothing that is not true, I mean that has not happened, it’s not the same thing but no matter'

 A sudden wish, I have a sudden wish to see, as sometimes in the old days, something, anything, no matter what, something I could not have imagined . How many have I killed, hitting them on the head or setting fire to them? Off-hand I can only think of four, all unknowns, I never knew anyone . There was the old butler too, in London I think, there's London again, I cut his throat with his razor, that makes five .

 One last glimpse and I feel 1 could slip away as happy as if I were embarking for— I nearly said for Cythera, decidedly it is time for this to stop . Before I go I should like to find a hole in the wall behind which so much goes on, such extraordinary things, f^id often coloured .

 It is clear we have here two distinct and separate bodies, each enclosed within its own frontiers, and having no need of each other to come and go and sustain the flame of life .

 MALONE DIES 239 for perhaps there are three of them, and how it sways and totters, but rather poor in colour . The night must be warm, for of a sudden the curtain lifts on a flare of tender colour, pale blush and white of flesh .

 It was sometime in the after- noon, impossible to say more, for hours and hours past it had been the same leaden light . Macmann took his hat off and laid it on his temple, that is to say turned his head and pressed his cheek to the ground . His hands at the ends of the long out- stretched arms clutched the grass, each hand a tuft .

 The idea of punishment came to his mind, addicted it is true to that chimera and probably impressed by the posture of the body and the fingers clenched as though in torment . 'Without knowing exactly what his sin was he felt full well that living was not a sufficient atonement for it or that this atonement was in itself a sin, calling for more atonement .

 Macmann was often in fear and trembling that he suffered, saying. This will cost me dear. But not knowing how to go about it, in order to MALONE DIES 241 think and feel correctly, he would suddenly begin to smile for no reason, as now, as then .

 The better late than never thanks to which true men, true links, can acknowledge error of their ways and hasten on to the next, was beyond the power of Macmann, to whom it some- seemed that he could grovel and wallow in his mortality until the end of time .

 Instead of springing up and hurrying on he turned over on his back, thus offering all his front to the deluge . And it was then his hair appeared clearly for the first time since his walks bare-headed in the smiling haunts of his youth .

 One man's hair was to white very much as the hour’s gloom to black and from the point of view of length very long what*is more, very long behind and very long on either side . On a dry and windy day it would have gone romping in the grass almost like grass itself . But the rain glued it to the ground and churned it up with earth and grass into a kind of muddy pulp .

 People are never content to suffer, but they must have heat and cold, rain and its contrary which is fine weather, and with that love, friendship, black skin and sexual and peptic deficiency for example .

 No one ever came to his help, to help him avoid the thorns and snares that attend the steps of innocence . He could never count on any other craft than his own, any other strength, to go from morning to evening and then from evening to morning without mortal hurt .

 Even he himself was compelled to admit that the place swept by him looked dirtier at his departure than on his arrival, as if a demon had driven him to collect, with the broom, shovel and barrow placed gratis at his disposal by the corporation .

 It was truly as if he were not master of his movements and did not know what he was doing, while he was . doing it, nor what he had done, while it was doing . When it came to repair or replace one of his buttons or pegs, which were not long-lived being mostly of green wood and exposed to all the rigours of the temperate zone .

 Macmann was incapable of picking his steps and choosing where to put down his feet . Even had he been so he would have been so to no great purpose, so little was he master of his movements . But to pass on now to considerations of another order, it is perhaps not inappropriate to wish Macmann .

 In theory his hat should have followed him, seeing it was tied to his coat, and the string twisted itself about his neck, but MALONE DIES 247 not at all, for theory is one thing and reality another .

 My pencil, my two pencils, the one of which nothing remains between my fingers but the lead fallen from the wood and the other, long and round, in the bed somewhere, I was holding it in reserve . My exercise-book, I don’t see it, but I feel it in my left hand, I know it’s there somewhere .

 The bowl of my pipe, though I never used a tobacco-pipe. I must have found it somewhere, on the ground, when out walking. There it was, in the grass, thrown away because it could no longer serve, the stem having broken off (I suddenly remember that) just short of the bowl. Round the shank, between the two corks, a wisp of black thread clings. It is a pretty little object, like a — no, it is like nothing. I continue from memory.

 I loved to finger and caress the hard shapely objects that were there in my deep pockets, it was my way of talking to them and reassuring them . And those of which I wearied, or which were ousted by new loves, I threw away . Or I buried them, or threw them into the sea, with all my strength as far as possible from the sea .

 In this way I disposed of things I loved but could no longer keep, because of new loves . And often I missed them. But I had hidden them so well that even I could never find them again. That’s the style, as if I still had time to kill. And so I have, deep down I know it well. Then why play at being in a hurry? I don’t know. Perhaps it is not de rigueur after all . Decidedly it will never have been given to me to finish anything, except perhaps breathing .

 A club in any case, I can’t help it, I must state the facts, without trying to understand, to the end . There are moments when I feel I have been here always, perhaps even was born here . But I have done with feeling and hypotheses. This club is mine and that is all about it. It is stained with blood, but insufficiently, insufficently .

 It did not greatly resemble — but it is wrong of me to dwell upon it — the one I have preserved, the yellow one remarkable for the number of its eyeholes . I never saw a boot with so many eyeholes, useless for the most part, having ceased ,*o be holes, and become slits . All these things arc together in the corner in a heap, I could lay hold of them, even now, in the dark, I need only wish to do so . If it was my hat I might put it on, that would remind me of the good old days, though I remember them sufficiently well .

 Mem, put it on on the off chance, well wedged down, before it is too late. But all in due time. I should rather like it to be buried with me, a harmless whim, but what steps should I take? Mem. slept.

 SAMUEL BECKETT wonders if he should go on drawing up an inventory corresponding perhaps but faintly to the facts . If I had a penny I would let it make up my mind. Decidedly the night is long and poor in counsel. But have I not perhaps just passed away? Malone, Malone, no more of that. Perhaps I should persist until dawn .

 It is an ass, taken from in front and close up, at the edge of the ocean, it is not the ocean . They naturally tried to make it raise its head, so that its beautiful eyes might be impressed on the celluloid, but it holds it lowered . No trace left of an\ clothes for example, apart from the boot, the hat and three socks, I counted them .

 The pots do not seem to be mine, I simply have the use of them . They answer to the defin- ition of what is mine, but they are not mine, perhaps it is the definition .

 To think I shall perhaps die of hunger, after all, of starvation rather, after having struggled successfully all my life against that menace . There is a providence for impotent old men, to the end. I shall therefore die of old age pure and simple, glutted with days as in tjie days before the flood, on a full stomach .

 I wonder if I could contrive, wielding my stick like a punt-pole, to move my bed . It may well be on castors, many beds are. Incredible I should never have thought of this, all the time I have been here . I might even succeed in steering it, it is so narrow, through the door, and down the stairs, if there is a stairs that goes down .

 The stick, having slipped, would have plucked me from the bed if I had not let it go . It would of course have been better for me to relinquish my bed than to lose my stick . The fear of falling is the source of many a folly .

 It is obvious to me now that bV making a more intelligent use of my stick I might have extracted myself from my bed and perhaps even got myself back into it . I thought I was turning my stick to the best possible account, like a monkey scratching its fleas with the key that opens its cage . How is it that 256 SAMUEL BECKETT never occurred to me?

 Are they depriving me of soup on purpose to help me die? Why feed me during my sleep? One judges people too hastily . Perhaps they fear an autopsy, perhaps they fear autopsy . But there is no proof they have . If they wished to help I would it not be more intelligent to give me poisoned soup .

 One day, much later, to judge by his appearance, Macmann came to again, once again, in a kind of asylum . At first he did not know it was one, being plunged within it, but he was told so as soon as he was in a condition to receive news .

 A woman's voice, extraordinarily shrill and unpleasant, was heard to say, Mann, his name is Macmann . Macmann obeyed, either because he was afraid of being punished if he refused or because he did not realize the seriousness of what he was doing . The speaker turned towards this informant, glared at him for a moment, then dropped his eyes . Then, suddenly turning, he cried. What in God's name are you all pushing for for Christ sake?

 She was a little old woman, immoderately ill-favoured of both face and body . She wore by way of earrings two long ivory crucifixes which swayed wildly at the least movement of her head . The thin yellow arms contorted by some kind of bone deformation were at first sight her most revolting features .

 Moll left Macmann alone as little as possible and even watched over him part of the night . She was so small that her feet did not reach to the floor .

 Macmann continued vehemently to demand his things, as if he did not understand a word of what she had just told him, she was obliged to invoke the regulations which tolerated on no account that an inmate should resume contact with the trappings of his derelict days until such time as he might be discharged . She left him, saying he was not reasonable . She came back a little later, holding with the tips of her fingers the hat in question .

 Can it be then that it is not the same Macmann at all, after all, in spite of the great resemblance (for those who know the power of the passing years), both physical and otherwise? Let us then first consider this first phase of Macmann’s stay in the House of Saint John of God .

 There sprang up gradually between them a kind of intimacy which, at a given moment, led them to lie together and copulate as best they could . This first phase, that of the bed, was characterized by the evolution of the relationship .

 Macmann was soon able to dispense with the explanations of his correspondent and understand all unaided . Not one day goes by that I do not give thanks to God, on my bended knees, for having found you, before I die . For we shall soon die, you and I, that is obvious. That it may be at the same moment exactly is all I ask .

 When you hold me in your arms, and I you in mine, it naturally does not amount to much, compared to the transports of youth, and even middle age . But all is relative, let us bear that in mind, stags and hinds have their needs and we have ours . Consider that the flesh is not the end-all and the be-all, especially at our age .

 For shame, you dirty old man! It’s all these bones that makes it awkward, that I grant you . Do not fret about our methods, leave all that to me, and I warrant you we’ll surprise each other yet . With regard to tetty-beshy I must beg to differ, it is well worth persevering with, in my opinion . Moral, for us at last it is the season of love, let us make most of it, there are pears that only ripen in December .

 He had time to compose ten or twelve more or less in this vein, all remarkable for their exaltation of love regarded as a kind of lethal glue . And it is extraordinary that Macmann should have suc- ceeded, in . so short a time and after such inauspicious beginnings, in elevating himself to a view of this altitude . He can only speculate on what he might have achieved if he had become acquainted with true sexuality at a less advanced age .

 One day just as Macmann was getting used to being loved, though without as yet responding as he was subsequently to do, he thrust Moll’s face away from his on the pretext of examining her ear- rings . Then parting her jaws and pulling down her blobber-lip she discovered, breaking with its solitary fang the monotomy of the gums, a long yellow canine bared to the roots and carved, with the drill probably, to represent the celebrated sacrifice .

 This incident made a strong impression on Macmann and Moll rose with a bound in his affections . But from these harmless aids what love is free? Sometimes it is an object, a garter or a sweat-absorber for the armpit .

 She was also subject to fits of vomiting and began to smell sweet . Half a century younger she might have been taken for pregnant . At the same time her hair began to fall out in abundance .

 The more she declined the more Macmann longed to crush her to his breast, which is at least sufficiently curious and un-usual to deserve of mention . When she turned and looked at him with eyes in which he fancied he could read boundless regret and love, then a kind of frenzy seized upon him and he began to belabor with his fists .

 Lemuel gave the impression of being slightly more stupid than malevolent, and yet his malevolence was con- siderable . When asked for example to state whether Saint John of Gods was a private institution or run by the State, it was seldom he got an immediate answer .

 Lemuel was subject to hypomaniacal fits of good humour . Lemuel had expressed the wish to get up and go out into the fresh air, but timidly, as when one asks for the moon .

 BuV Lemuel was made of sterner stuff, in this connection, and far from being being a stickler for the statutes seemed to have little or no acquaintance with them . Physical pain, on the contrary, seemed to help him greafly. And one day rolling up the leg of his trousers, he showed Macmann his shin covered with bruises, scars and abrasions. Then produc- ing smartly a hammer from an inner pocket he dealt himself, right in the middle of his ancient wounds, so violent a blow that he fell down backwards .

 SAMUEL BECKETT has had a visit. Things were going too well. I jiad for- gotten myself, lost myself . Then I had the visit. To bring me back to dying. If that amuses them, they don’t know, neither do I, but they think they know. It is a noise quite unlike thunder . It is certainly the first time I have heard it here, to my knowledge .

 The stories I was told, at one time! And all funny, not one not funny . The aeroplane, on the other hand, has just passed over at two hundred miles an hour perhaps . It does not depend on me, my lead is not inexhaustible, nor my exercise-book, nor Macmann, nor myself in spite of appearances, for the moment .

 The light has been queer ever since, oh I insinuate nothing, dim and at the same time radiant . His mouth opened, his lips worked, but I heard nothing. And yet I am not deaf, witness the aeroplane, if I hear nothing it is because there is nothing to hear. But perhaps life has dulled my irritability to specifically human sounds .

 The only thing you must never speak of is your happiness, I can think of nothing else for the moment . The light is queer ever since. He must have been here from nine to twelve, then from two to six, now I have it .

 The lead too, I w <t s forgetting the lead, but what is a lead, without paper? He must have said to himself, over his lunch. This afternoon JJU take his exercise-book from him, he seems to cherish it. But when he came back from his lunch the exercise- book was no longer in the place where he had seen me put it, he had not thought of that .

 It was so long sine# I had seen a biped of this description that I had my eyes out on stalks, as the saying is, for fear of not being able to credit them . The poor bastard squeezed himself in between the bed and the wall, to try and open the window . He couldn’t. could stare me down, because I am old and helpless .

 He was wearing brown boots, which gave me such a shock as no words can convey . They were copiously caked with fresh mud and I said to myself. I wonder if he was looking for something in particular, it would be so nice to know . I shall tear a page out of my exercise-book and re-produce upon it, from memory, what follows .

 As well ask for a rubber while I am about it. Could you lend me an India rubber? When he had gone I said to myself. But surely I have seen him somewhere before. And the people I've seen have seen me too, I can guarantee that. But of whom may it not be said, I know that man?

 A little girl would undress before me, sleep beside me, have nobody but me, I would jam the bed against the door to prevent her running away, but then she wouy throw herself out of the window . I would teach her love and loathing, she would close my eyes and put a plug in my arse-hole, as per instructions .

 Cork lasted for ages, but he was young, and then he had political eonvictions, human ones too probably, just plain human convictions . And he allowed himself a sip of water from time to time, sweetened probably .

 Perhaps I should finish 276 SAMUEL BECKETT with myself first, in so far naturally as such a thing is possible . Mem, add to the questionnaire, Tf you happen to have a match try and light it .

 Lemuel went out alone, in silence, when he knew what he had to do, straight to the bush in which Macmann had made his lair, whenever this was necessary . Macmann, weary of not being alone went away alone and back into his cell and remained there until Lemuel rejoined him .

 Macmann, having brought back from his walk a hyacinth he had torn up bulb and roots in the*hope of being able to keep it a little longer thus than if he had simply plucked it, was fiercely reprimanded by Lemuel who wrenched the pretty flower from his hands and threatened to hand him over to Jack again, no, to Pat again .

 SAMUEL BECKETT: 'Would it not have been preferable to make this known to all concerned, so that the sense of guilt might precede and accompany it as well? Problem. Thanks to the white cloak with its blue butcher stripes no confusion was possible between the Macmanns and the Lemuels, Pats and Jacks .

 The last word in the way of viaticum. Let us try it another way. The pure plateau. Yes, it was a plateau, Moll had not lied, or rather a great mound with gentle slopes . The entire top was occupied by the domain of Saint John .

 Macmann sometimes wondered what was lacking to his happiness . The right to be abroad in all weathers morning, noon and night, trees and bushes with outstretched branches to wrap him round and hide him, food and lodging such as they were free of all charge . In a word a little Paradise for those who like their nature sloven .

 He crept along by the wall under the cover of the bushes, searching for a breach through which he might slip out, under cover of night, or a place with footholds where he might climb over . But the wall was unbroken and smooth and topped uniterruptedly with broken glass .

 Others besides Macmann strayed from morning to night, stooped under the heavy cloak, in the rare glades, among the trees that hid the sky and in the high ferns where they looked like swimmers . Macmann carried with him and contemplated Froth time to time the photograph that Moll had given him .

 Macmann tore up this photograph and threw the bits in the air, one windy day . He liked best in this picture was the chair, the seat of which seemed to be made of straw .

 Lemuel slept on the bare boards and even off them ate his lesser meals, now at one place and now at another . Lady Pedal was not the only one to take an interest in the inmates of Saint John of God's .

 Lemuel ordered six extra or excursion soups at his mere demand . The difference between an excursion soup and a common or house soup was simply this, that the latter was uni- formly liquid . The former contained a piece of fat bacon intended to keep up the strength of the excursionist until his return .

 Lemuel's chamber-pot was empty, whereas in his bowl the soup of the previous day had congealed . Lemuel was used to this, so used that he had long since ceased to wonder on what this crea- ture fed . He emptied the bowl into his empty bucket and from his full bucket filled it with fresh soup . He locked the door behind him, an unnecessary precaution .

 A small thin man was pacing up and down, his cloak folded over his arm, an umbrella in his hand . In the fourth a misshapen giant, bearded, occupied to the exclusion of all else in scratching him- self, intermittently. Sprawled on his pillow on the floor under the window, his head sunk, his mouth open, his legs wide apart, his knees raised, and the other came and went under his shirt .

 Lemuel assembled his flock after two hours of efforts to assemble, single-handed, Pat having refused to help him . Lemuel stood on the terrace waiting for Lady Pedal to arrive . Macmann, furious at having been shut up in his cell all morning and at a loss to understand what was wanted of him, had notably refused to .

 The director or his delegate, also present, said dreamily from time to time. Lemuel consented to his keeping it on, provided it was hidden by the hood. Macmann continued peevish and agitated, trying to free his arm and saying over and over again, Let me go! The youth, tormented by the sun, was grabbing feebly at the thin one’s umbrella, saying, Pasol! The thin one retaliated with petulant taps on his hands and arms. Naughty! he cried. Help! The giant had thrown his arms round the Saxon's neck and hung there

 Lady Pedal was a huge, big, tall, fat woman . Artificial daisies with brilliant yellow disks gushed from her broad-brimmed straw hat . The passengers, yielding with unanimous inertia to the tilt of the seats, sprawled pell-mell beneath the box .

 Lemuel produced a hatchet from under his cloak and dealt himself a few smart blows on the skull, with the heel, for safety .

 Lady Pedal let us find a place to picnic, and Maurice stayed by the dinghy . Maurice refused to leave the boat, so that the Saxon could not leave it either . Macmann was not free either, Lemuel held him by the waist, perhaps lovingly . She moved away with Ernest. Suddenly she turned and said there are Druid remains .

 Lemuel killed Maurice who was sitting on a stone filling his pipe and killed him with the hatchet . Maurice killed him in his turn, in the same way as the other . The voice of Lady Pedal, calling. She appeared, joyous. Come along, she cried, all of you, before the tea gets cold .

 Lemuel has shipped his oars, the oars trail in the water . Mac-Mann, my last, my possessions, I remember, he is there too, perhaps he sleeps . Lemuel Lemuel is in charge, he raises his hatchet on which the blood will never dry, but not to hit anyone .

 The best is not to decide anything, in this connection, in advance . I should mention before going any further, any further on, that I say aporia without knowing what it means . Can one be ephectic otherwise than unawares? I don’t know. But I have few illusions, things are to be expected .

 Where there are people, it is said, there are things . Does this mean that when you admit the former you must also admit the latter? Time will tell. The thing to avoid, I don’t know why, is the spirit of system . Malone is there. Of his mortal liveliness little trace remains .

 I see him from the waist up, he stops at the waist, far as I am concerned . The trunk is erect, but I do not know whether he is on his feet or on his knees . The place is no doubt vast. Dim intermittent lights suggest a kind of distance .

 Was there a time when I too rwolved thus? No, I have always been sitting here, at this selfsame spot, my hands on my knees, ga/mg before me like a great horn-owl in an aviary . The tears stream down my cheeks from my unblinking eyes. What makes me weep so? From time to time. Perhaps it is liquefied brain .

 These lights for instance, which I do not require to mean anything, what is there so strange about them, so wrong? Is it their irregularity, their instability, their shining strong one minute and weak the next, but never beyond the power of one or two candles? Malone appears and disappears with the punc- tuality of clockwork .

 Has nothing really changed since I have been here? No, frankly, hand on heart, no, nothing, to my knowledge . But, as I have said, the place may well be vast, as it may well measure twelve feet in diameter . I like to think ^occupy the centre, but nothing is less certain .

 Hell itself, although eternal, dates from the revolt of Lucifer, Hell itself is eternal . It is permissible, in the light of this distant analogy, to think of myself as being here forever, but not as having been here forever . That I am not stone deaf is shown by the sounds that reach me .

 After so long a silence a little cry, stifled outright? Impossible to say. Not a human one in any case, there are no human creatures here, or if there are they have done with crying . Is Malone the culprit? Am I? Is it not perhaps a simple little fert, they can be rending? Deplorable mania, when something happens, to inquire what. If only I were not obliged to manifest. And why speak of a cry? Perhaps it is something breaking, some two things colliding .

 The next time they enter the field, moving slowly towards each other, I shall know they are going to collide, fall and appear, and this will perhaps enable me to observe them better . Wrong. I continue to see Malone as darkly as the first time .

 Why did I have myself represented in the midst of men, the light of day? It seems to me it was none of my doing . But it can only have been from them I learnt what I know about men and the ways they have of putting up with it .

 When did all this nonsense stop? And has it stopped? Is it merely a lull? I use it still, to scratch my arse with. I remember little or nothing pf lectures. I cannot have understood a great deal. But I seem to have retained certain descriptions, in spite of myself .

 He raises THE UNNAMABLE 301 his eyes and T feel the long imploring gaze, as if I could do some- thing for him . Another impression, no doubt equally false, he brings me presents and dare not give them . He does n<yt come often, I cannot be more precise, but regularly assuredly . His visit has never coincided with the transit of Malone .

 The only encounter I ever wit- nessed, a long time ago now, has never yet been re-enacted . In order to speak, one starts speaking as if it were possible to stop at will . But in the long run it might become wearisome .

 Malone revolves, a stranger forever to my infirmities, one who is not as I can never not be. I am motionless in vain, he is the god And the other? I have assigned him eyes that implore me, offerings for me, need of succour. He does not look at me, does not know of me .

 The days of sticks are over, here I can count on my body alone, my body incapable of the smallest movement . I sometimes wonder if the two retinae are not facing each other . But perhaps I am the prey, on the subject of grey, in the grey, to delusions .

 Matthew and I am the angel, I who came before the cross, before the sinning, came into the world, came here . I add this, to be on the safe side. These things I say, and shall say, if I can, are no longer, or are not yet . or never were, or never will be . But I am here, but I have never been elsewhere, however uncertain the future .

 I'm not heading for disaster, I am not heading anywhere, my adventures are over, my say said . And yet I greatly fear, since my speech can only be of me and here that I am once more engaged in putting an end to both . But I do not despair of one day sparing me, without going silent . And that day, I don’t know why, I shall be able to go silent, and make an end, I know it .

 I’ll never know which is perhaps merely the inside of my distant skull where once I wan- THE UNNAMABLE 305 dered, now am fixed, lost for tininess, or straining against the walls .

 The fact that Prometheus was delivered twenty-nine thou-sand nine hundred and seventy years after having purged his offence leaves me naturally as cold as camphor . For between me and that miscreant who mocked the gods, invented fire and denatured clay, I trust there is nothing in common .

 No one has ever met anyone before my eyes, these creatures have never been, only I and this black void have ever been . And Basil and his gang? Inexistent, invented to explain I forget what. about me, no one comes towards me . And the sounds? No, all is silent. And the lights, on which I had set such store, must they too go out? Yes, out with them, there is no light here . Nothing then but me, of which I know nothing, except that I have never uttered .

 It is well to establish the position of the body from the outset, before passing on to more important matters . But what makes me say I gaze straight before me, as I have said? I feel my back straight, my neck stiff and free of twist and up on top of it the head, like the ball of the cup-and-ball in its cup at the end of the stick . Then there is the way of flowing of my tears which flow all over my face, and even down along the neck .

 In the matter of clothes then 1 can think of nothing for the moment but possibly puttees, with perhaps a few rags clinging to me here and there . I invented love, music, the smell of flowering currant to escape from me .

 SAMUEL BECKETT says he is round and hard, there must be reasons for that . But do I roll, in the manner of a true ball? Or am I in equilibrium somewhere, on one of my numberless poles? All the rest I renounce, including this ridiculous black tfhich I thought for a moment worthier than grey to enfold me .

 Perhaps now again I shall do no more than seek my lesson, to the self-accompaniment of a tongue that is not mine . Let it be assumed then that I am at rest, though this is unimportant, at rest or forever moving, through the air or in contact with other surfaces, or that I sometimes move, sometimes rest, since I feel nothing .

 One day will come stealing the long clear sigh of advent and farewell, is it one? I ll ask no m<fre questions, there are no more questions, I know none any more . It issues from me, tills me, it clamours against my walls, it is not mine, I can’t stop it . I won't delay just now to make this clear .

 The last time that happened to me, or to the other who passes for me, I was not inattentive . And it seemed to me then that I heard a murmur telling of another and le«s unpleasant method of ending my troubles . Perhaps I shall be obliged to invent another fairy-tale, yet another, with heads, trunks, arms, legs and all that follows .

 I suppose I suppose that I went silent, meaning I suppose . that I can go silent . And now this noise again. That is all rather obscure. I say years, though here there are no years . One might as well speak and be done with it. What liberty! I strained my ear .

 It is his voice which has often, always, mingled with mine, and sometimes drowned it completely . When he was away I tried to find myself again, to forget what he had said, about me . But his voice continued to testify for me, as though woven into mine, preventing me from saying who I was, what I was . And still today, as he would say, though he plagues me no more his voice is there, in mine, but less, less .

 SAMUEL BECKETT redoubled vigour to make him think he was a free agent . But it would not be my voice, not even in part . I would be fast asleep, my mouth agape, as usual, I would look the same as usual . And from my sleeping mouth the lies would pour, about me. No, not sleeping, listening, in tears. I'd let it flow over and over, happy at last, dribbling with life, my pensum ended, in the silence .

 I was given a pensum, at birth perhaps, as a punishment for having been born perhaps, or for no particular reason, because they dislike me, and I've forgotten what it is . But was I ever told? Squeeze, squeeze, not too hard, but squeeze a little longer, this is perhaps about you, and your goal at hand . After ten thousand words? Well let us say one goal, after it there will be others .

 It may seem natural, once the idea of obligation has been swalloweS, that I should interpret it as an obligation to say something . But is it possible? Bereft of hands, perhaps it is my duty to clap or, striking the palms together, to call the waiter, and of feet, to dance the Carmagnole .

 It seems impossible, at this stage, that I should dispense with questions, as I promised myself I would . And perhaps before long, who knows, I shall light on the happy combination which will prevent them from ever arising again in my — let us not be over-nice — mind . For what I am doing is not being done without 314 SAMUEL BECKETT a minimum of mind .

 If it occurs to me now it is because I have despaired of mine. A moment of dis- couragement, to strike while hot. My master then, assuming he is solitary, in my image, wishes me well, poor devil, wishes my good . Another supposition, he has taken the necessary steps, his will is done as far as I am concerned (for he may have other proteges) and all is well with me without my knowing it .

 I want all to be well with you, do you hear me, that’s what he keeps on dinning at me . To which I reply, in a respectful attitude, I too, your Lordship. I say that to cheer him up., he sounds so unhappy. I am good-hearted, on the surface. No, we have no conversation, never a mum of his mouth to me . What he means by good, my good, is another problem. He is capable of wanting me to be happy, such a thing has been known, it appears .

 Every day, up above, I mean up above me, from one set hour to another set hour, every- thing there being set and settled except what is to be done with me, they assemble to discuss me . I leave to be desired. If he wants me to say something, for my good naturally, he has only to tell me what it is and I'll let it out with a roar straight away . But perhaps I malign him unjustly, perhaps he is not solitary like me, not free like me . Perhaps then I could go silent, for good and all. Idle talk, idle talk, I am free

 Business of a labour to accomplish, before I can end, of words to say, a truth to recover, in order to say it . I invented it all, in the hope it would console me, help me to go on, allow me to think of myself as somewhere on a road, .moving, between a beginning and an end, gaining ground, losing ground, getting lost, but somehow in the long run making headway .

 Even Mahood’s stories are not any old thing, though no less foreign, to what, to that unfamiliar native land of mine . Before him there were others, taking themselves for me, it must be a sine- cure handed down from generation to generation, to judge by their family air . Mahood is no worse than his predecessors. But before executing his portrait, full length on his surviving leg, let me note that my next vice-exister will be a billy in the bowl .

 There we are face to face, Mahood and I, if we are twain, as I say we are. This time I .im short of a leg. And yet it appears I have rejuvenated. Having brought me to death’s door, senile gangrene, they whip off a leg and yip off I go again .

 More than once 1 almost took myself for the other, all but suffered after his fashion, the space of an instant . Mahood himself nearly codded me more than once . After each thrust of crutches I stopped, to devour a narcotic and measure the distance gone, the distance yet to go .

 I must have got embroiled in a kind of inverted spiral, I mean one the coils of which, instead of widening more and more, grew narrower and narrower THE UNNAMABLE 319 . Faced then with the material impossibility of going any further I should no doubt have had to stop, unless of course I elected to set off again at once in the opposite direction, to unscrew myself as it were .

 At any moment, literally any run foul of a wall, a tree or similar obstacle, which of course it would be pro- hibited to circumvent, and thereby have an end put to my gyrations . But obstacles, it appears, can be removed in the fullness of time, but not by me, me they would stop dead forever, if I lived among them .

 Yonder is the nest you should never have left, there your dear absent ones are awaiting your return, patiently, and you too must be patient . At the centre of this enclosure stood a small rotunda, windowless, but well furnished with loopholes . At night, keeping watch by turns, they observed me with the help of a searchlight .

 According to Mahood I never reached them, that is to say they all died first, the whole ten or eleven of them, carried off by sausage-poisoning . Incommoded first by their shrieks, then by the stench of decomposition, I turned sadly away . My missing leg didn’t seem to affect them, perhaps it was already missing when I left . My parents differed in their views on me, but they agreed I had been a fine baby .

 A burst of clear and innocent laughter, from the mouths of those whom sleep had not yet overcome, greeted this premature conclusion . The narrators themselves, torn from their melan- choly thoughts, could scarce forbear to smile . Then they all rose, with the exception of my mother whose knees couldn't support her, and sang .

 Malone: "I was entirely absorbed in the business on hand and not at all concerned to know precisely, or even approximately, what it consisted in" The only problem for me was how to continue, since I could not do otherwise, in the motion which had been imparted to me . This obligation, and the quasi-impossibility of fulfilling it, engrossed me in a purely mechanical way, excluding notably the free play of the intelligence and sensibility .

 I had no wish to arrive, but I had to do my utmost, in order to arrive . To go on, I still call that on, to go on and get on has been my only care, if not always in a straight line .

 They were therefore right in saying I had fallen, they were not far wrong . Oh I have also been known to fall in voluntarily, but not often, an old warrior like me, you can imagine . Mahood must have remarked that I re- mained sceptical, for he casually let fall that I was lacking not only a leg, but an arm also .

 From that moment on I ceased to go along with him . I’ll explain why, that will permit me to think of something else and in the first place of how to get back to me . I'll give three or four, that ought to be enough for me .

 By the rains, my head cracking with unutterable im- precations, it was from rrtyself I should have had to turn aside, be- fore all else . Let us rather consider what really took place, if Mahood was telling the truth .

 It is some considerable time now since I last knew what I was talking about, it is because my thoughts are elsewhere . I am therefore forgiven. So long as one’s thoughts arc somewhere everything is permitted . And let us consider what really took place, if Mahood was telling the truth .

 Isolde’s breast would have done just as well, or papa's private parts, or the heart of one of the little bastards . But is it certain? Would I have not been more likely, in a sudden access of independence, to devour what remained of the fatal corned-beef?

 WYiat speaks of, what I speak with, all comes from them . It’s of me now I must speak, even if I have to do it with their language, it will be a start, a step towards silence .

 Nothing will remain of all the lira they have glutted me with . And I’ll be myself at last, as a starveling belches his odourless wind, before the bliss of coma . My inability to absorb, my genius for forgetting, aife more than they reckoned with .

 I'll fix their jargon for thern, then any old thing, no matter what, whatever they want, with a will, till time is done, at least with a good grace . I’ll say what I am, so as not to have not been born for nothing . I am neither Murphy, nor Watt, nor Mercier, nor — no, I can’t even bring myself to name them, nor any of the others whose very names I forget .

 There is no use denying, no use harping on the same old thing I know so well, and so easy to say, and which amounts in the end to speak- ing yet again in the way they intend me to speak, that is to say about them, even with execration and disbelief . If they had taught me how to wish I’d wish they did. There’s no getting rid of them without naming them and their contraptions, that's the thing to keep in mind .

 I was under the impression I spent my life in spirals round the earth. Wrong, it’s on the island I wind my endless ways. I’ve never left the island, God help me. I don’t know it either .

 Police tolerate 330 SAMUEL BECKETT by the police . They know I am speechless and capable of taking unfair advantage of my situation to stir up the population against its governors .

 Once a week I was taken out of my receptacle, so that it might be emptied . This duty fell to the pro- prietress of the chop-house across the street . She performed it punctually and without complaint . When snow fell she covered me with a tarpaulin still water- tight in places .

 It must not be forgotten that I represented for this woman an undeni- able asset . For quite apart from the services I rendered to her lettuce, I constituted for her establishment a kind of landmark . The jar itself, so that the passer-by might consult with greater ease the menu attached to it, had been raised on a pedestal .

 SAMUEL BECKETT has started lying again and has had lessons in pigsty Latin too . Snow alone, provided of course it is heavy, entitles me to the tarpaulin . I wonder what explanation she can have found to account for this behaviour .

 This story is no good, I'm beginning almost to believe it. But let us see how it is supposed to end, that will sober me. The trouble is I forget how it goes on. But did I ever know? Perhaps it stops there, perhaps they stopped it there, saying, There you are now, you don’t need us any more. This in fact is one of their favourite devices, to stop suddenly at the least sign of adhesion from me .

 The one-armed one-legged wayfarer of a moment ago ftnd the wedge-headed trunk in which I am now marooned are simply two phases of the same carnal envelope . Having lost one leg, what indeed more likely thar* that I should mislay the other?

 SAMUEL BECKETT has been blinded by the jar a few inches away . The woman fills the bottom of his jar with sawdust which she changes every week, when she makes my toilet .

 First look of her eyes still moist with fornication is for the jar . And when she does not sea- my head she comes running to find out what has happened . For either I have escaped during the night or else I have shrunk again .

 To have forever before my eyes, when I opeif them, approximately the same set of hallucinations exactly, is a joy I might never have known, but for my cang. of this affair . There is really only one thing that worries me, and that is the prospect of being throttled if I should ever happen to shorten further .

 The worst is over. You've been sufficiently assassinated, sufficiently suicided, to be able now to stand on your own feet, like a big boy . Slough off this mortal inertia, it is out of places in this society. They can’t do evenhing. the trouble they’ve taken to bring you to life. They have put you on the right road, led you by the ha id to the very britfk of the precipice, now it’s up to you, with an unassisted last step, to show them your gratitude .

 There something seems to stir, from time to time, no reason therefore to despair of a fit of apoplexy . The organs of digestion and evacuation, though sluggish, are not wholly inactive, as is shown by the atten- tions I receive .

 I shall never see this place again, where my jar stands on its pedestal, with its garland of many-coloured lanterns, and me inside it, I could not cling to it . Perhaps they will have me struck by lightning, for a change, or poleaxed, one merry bank- holiday evening, bundled in my shroud and whiskecf away, out of sight and mind . And at my next appearance, if I ever appear again, all will be new, new and strange . But little by little I’ll get used to it, admonished by them, used to the scene, used

 It will perhaps be less restful than I appear to think, alone there at last, and never importuned . No matter, rest is one of their words, think is another, but here at last is food for delirium . I have my faults, but changing my tune is not one of them, I have only to go on, as if there was something to be done .

 A parrot, that’s what they’re up against, a parrot. If they had told me what I have to say, in order to meet with their approval. I’d be bound to say it, sooner or later. But God forbid, that would be too easy, my heart wouldn’t be in it. I have only to belch to be sure of hearing them, the same old sour teachings I can't change a tittle of. But the other voice, of him who does not share this passion for the animal kingdom, who is waiting to hear from me, what

 May one speak of a voice, in these conditions? Probably not. And I speak of voices! After all, why not, so long as one knows it’s untrue. Let them come. So nothing about me. That is to say THE UNNAMABLE 339 no connected statement. Hear mel Be yourself again!

 The moment the silence is broken in this way it can only mean one thing. Orders, prayers, threats, praise, reproach, reasons. Praise, yes, they gave me to understand I was making progress. But I'll have made progress, they told me so, only not enough, not enough. I'll die in the lower third, bowed down with years and impositions, four foot tall again, like when I had a future .

 It's time I gave this solitary a name, nothing doing without proper names . I therefore baptise nim Worm. It was high time. I don't like it, but I haven’t much choice. Worm is the first of his kind. He has not yet been able to speak his mind, only murmur, all the while others discoursed .

 It is true poor Worm is not to blame for this, but let me complete my views, before .T shit on them . The essential is never to arrive anywhere, never to be anywhere, neither where Mahood is, nor where . where . Worm is, or if I am not yet Worm, I shall be when I cease to be Mahood, plop. be silent too .

 The essential is to go on squirming forever at the end of the line, as long as there are waters and banks and ravening in heaven a sport- ing God to plague his creature, per pro his chosen shits . I’ve swal- lowed three hooks and am still hungry. Hence the howls.

 There might be a hun- dred of us and still we’d lack the hundred and first, we'll always be short of me . Perhaps it's by trying to be Worm that I’ll finally succeed in being Mahood, 1 hadn’t thought of that . It seems to me besides that I must have already made, contrary to whc/i, some efforts in this direction . But Worm 'cannot note'

 It is the hour of the aperitif, already people pause, to read the menu . Talk of Worm to begin talking of Mahood, with more felicity and understanding than ever .

 By ten o’clock in the evening all is silent, as the g^jjive, as they say . Here all is killing and eating. This evening there is tripe. It’s a winter dish, or a late autumn one. Soon Marguerite will come and light me up. She is late. Please God nothing has happened to my protectress. I shall not hear her coming, because of the snow. I spent all morning under my cover .

 How is it the people do not notice me? I seem to exist for none but Madeleine .

 I shall soon be in no fit condition to receive it, so greatly have my faculties declined, in recent times . As long as I am not distinguished by some sense organs other than Madeleine's, it will be impossible for me to believe, sufficiently to pursue my act, the things that arc told about me .

 When Mahood I once knew a doctor who held that scientifically speaking the latest breath could only issue from the fundament and this therefore, rather than the mouth, the orifice to which the family shoiftd pre- sent the mirror, before opening the will . However this may be, and without dwelling further on these macabre details, it is certain I was grievously mistaken in supposing that death in itself could be regarded as evidence, or even a strong presumption, in support of a preliminary life .

 146 SAMUEL BECKETT is clear and simple . The next thing is somehow to connect this with the unhappy Madeleine and her great goodness .

 There was a time I thought she was perhaps a near relation, mother, sister, daughter, or such- like, perhaps even a wife, and that she was sequestrating me . But assuming I was being stowed away in a*public place, why go to such trouble to draw attention to my head, artisti- cally illuminated from dusk to midnight? Another thing however, this woman has never spoken to me, to the best of my knowledge . She needs me. It is not sur- prising then she should have visions .

 The moment is at hand when my only believer must deny me. Nothing has happened. If I say anything to the contrary again I shall be mistaken again. Unless I am mistaken now. Never an affectionate word, never a reprimand. For fear of bringing me to the public notice? Or lest the illusion should be dispelled?

 The stories of Mahood are ended. He has realised they could not be about me, he has aban- doned, it is I who win, who tried so hard to lose, and be left in peace .

 I say what I am told to say, in the hope that some day they will weary of talking at me . The trouble is I say it wrong, having no ear, no head, no memory . Now I seem to hear them say it is Worm’s voice beginning, I pass on the news, for what it is worth . Do they believe I believe it is I who am speaking? That's theirs too, a little distorted perhaps .

 To say Worm does not know what he is is, where he is, what is happening, is to underestimate him . He exists nevertheless, but not for himself, for others, others conceive him and say . Worm is, since we conceive him, as if there could be no being but being conceived, if only by the beer .

 He who seeks his true countenance, let him be of good cheer, he’ll find it, convulsed with anguish, the eyes out on stalks . He who longs to have lived, while he was alive, will be reassured, life will tell him how . Let it go through me at last, the right one, the last one, his who has none .

 These voices are not mine, nor these thoughts, but the voices and thoughts of the devils who beset me . I’m tired of being matter, matter, pawed and pummelled endlessly in vain . But is it still they who say that when I have failed to be Worm I'll be Mahood, automatically, on the rebound?

 They think I can’t bear silence, that some day, sdhiehow, my horror of silence will force me to break it . That's why they are always leaving* off, to try and drive me to extremities . But they dare not be silent for long, the whole fabrication might collapse .

 J52 Samuel BECKETT's latest novel, The Death of Worm, is published by Simon Cowell . It is about the struggle to withstand the starting eye, the labouring mind .

 The novel is set to be published by Simon Cowan in Paris next week .

 Day I feel myself soaring above my condition, but not so fast. I still leave much to be desired, I have no technique, none. I don’t know how to want to, I want to in vain. I only think, if that is the name for this vertiginous panic as of hornets smoked out of their nest, once a certain degree of terror has been exceeded .

 Sometimes I say to myself I am in a head, it’s terror makes me say it, and the longing to be in safety, surrounded on jail sides by massive bone . And often all sleeps, as when I was really Worm, except this voice which has denatured me .

 It seems to me too, which is even more deplorable, that I could become Worm again, if I were left in peace . But that is of course impossible, since Worm could not know what he was like, or who he was, that's how they want me to reason .

 'Worm* will I ever get born? It’s the same problem. But perhaps not the same person- age after all . Tihe scytheman will tell, it's all one to him . But let us go back as planned, afterwards we’ll fall forward as projected . The reverse would be more like it. But not by much, I begin by the ear, that's the way to talk .

 Perhaps it's Botal’s Foramen, when all about me palpitates and labours . Can it be I have a friend among them, shaking his head in sorrow and saying nothing or only, from time to time . Perhaps I shall speak of him some day, and of the impenetrable age when I was he, some day when they fall silent .

 If I speak of a head, referring to me, it’s because I hear it being spoken of . But why keep on saying the same thing? They hope things will change one day, it's natural . They say I suffer like true thinking flesh, but I’m sorry, I feel nothing .

 How long did I remain a pure ear? Up to the moritent when it could go on no longer, being too good to last, compared to what was coming . Millions of different sounds, always the same, recurring without pause, are all one requires to sprout a head .

 He knows they are words, he is not sure they are not his, that’s how it begins . In their shoes I’d be content with my knowing what I know . But they are severe, greedy, no less, perhaps more, than when I was playing Mahood .

 The only noises Worm has had till now are those of mohths, correct . Worm says he knows they are words but how can he know, who has never heard anythftig else?

 A head has grown out of his ear, the better to enrage him, that must be it. The head is there,, glued to the ear, and in it nothing but rage, that’s all that matters, for the time being. The circumvolutionisation will be seen too later, when they get him out. He’ll know what is afoot, that the end of the world is not at hand. No, in the place where he is he cannot learn, the head cannot work, he merely hears, and suffers .

 There is no question of imparting to him any instruction whatso- ever, for the moment . This catechist’s tongue, honeyed and per- fidious, is the only one they know . No matter where he goes, being at the centre, he will go towards them .

 No matter where he goes he will go towards them, towards their song of triumph, when they know he has moved, or towards their sudden silence . Then the voice will begin again, low at first, then louder, coming from the quarter they want him to retreat from, to make him think he is pursued and struggle on, towards them . He will drop, assuming he had risen, but even a reptile can drop, after a long flight, the expression may be used without impropriety .

 Worm will never know this joy but darkly, being less than a beast, before he is restored, more or less, to that state in which he was before the beginning of his prehistory . Then they will lay hold of him and gather him into their midst . For if they could make a small THE UNNAMABLE hole for the eye, then bigger ones for the arms, they can make one bigger still for the transit of Worm, from darkness to light .

 It is strange they do not go and fetch him in his den, since the> seem to have access to it . But the place where he lies is vast, that’s interesting, he is far, too far for them to reach him even with the longest pole . They could set a dog on him perhaps, with instruc- tions to drag him out . But no dog would survive there either, not for one second .

 The voice of the blest interceding invisible, for the living and for the dead, all is possible, he hears . Worm is alone, and mute, lost in the smoke, and lost in smoke . Worm understands nothing it says, just a little, almost nothing, it's inexplicable .

 The rascal is getting humanised, he’s going to lose if he doesn’t watch out, if he . doesn't take care, and with what could he form the faintest conception of the condition they are decoying him into, with their . tears and a brainpan where anything may happen . That's his strength, his only strength, that he understands nothing, can't take thought, doesn't know what they want .

 Worm hears, that’s all can be said for certain, whereas there was a time he didn’t, the same Worm, according to them, he has therefore changed . The eye too, of course, is there to put him to flight, make him take fright, badly enough to break his bonds, they call that bonds . Perhaps there is only one of them, one would do the trick just as well, but he might .

 A man would wonder where his kingdom ended, his eye strive to penetrate the gloom, and he crave for a stick, an arm, fingers apt to grasp and then release, at the right moment, a stone, stones, or for the power to utter a cry .

 'Worm suffers only from the noise which prevents him from being what he was before, admire the nuance. If it’s the same Worm, and they have set their hearts on it. And if it is not it makes no difference, he suffers as he has always suffered, from this noise that prevents nothing, that must be feasible . But perhaps one day brightness will come, little by little, or rapidly, or in a sudden flood .

 There must be something of everything here, as in every world, a little of everything . A face, how encouraging that would be, if it could be a face, every now and then, always the same, methodi-cally varying its expressions, doggedly demonstrating all a true face can do, without every ceasing to be recognisable as such .

 Time would be wearisome, or too little, it would not be enough, but just the necessary time for hope to be born, grow, languish and die, say five minutes . And even Should the notion of time dawn on his darkness, at this punc- tual image of the countenance everlasting, who could blame him? Involving very naturally that of space, they have taken to going hand in hand, in certain quarters, it's safer .

 We must stick to the facts, for what else is there, to stick to, to cling to, when all founders, but the facts . When there are anyy still floating, within reach of the heart, happy expression that, of the . heart crying out . The facts are there, as it were, and then more calmly, when the danger is past, the continuation of the case* before us .

 Aif eruption is what’s needed to spew Worm into the light, to spew him out of the shadows . Worm should have fled, but where, how, he's riveted . Worm is riveted, but how could he, he can't 6tir, it needn’t be bonds, there are no bonds .

 There's no air here, air is to make you choke, light is to close your eyes, that’s where he must go, where it's never dark either . When they £o, when they go silent, it will be dark - not a sound, not a glimmer, but they’ll never go, yes . They will say yes and no, not knowing what answer the master wants .

 The grey means nothing, the grey silence is not necessarily a mere lull, to* be got through somehow, it may be final, or it may not . The black means nothing either, as to the nature of the silence which it inspissates (as it were)

 Worm musUnot be con- fused with another, though this has no importance, as it happens . For he who bfis once had to listen will listen always, whether he knows he will never hear anything again, or whether he does not. strain his ears for the murmurs of olden silences .

 As long as he suffers there’s hope, even though they need none, to make him suffer . But hkw can they know he suffers? Do they see him? They say they do, but it's impossible. Hear him? Certainly not. He makes no noise .

 A little fit of impatience, on the part of the patient, is the immediate object . Afterwards there will be others . But for the moment let him toss and turn at least, roll on the ground, damn it all. must be possible .

 A great gulp of stinking air and off we go, we’ll be back in a second. Forward! That’s soon said. But where is forward? And why? The dirty pack of fake maniacs, they know I don’t know . They know I forget all they say as fast as they say it. When they go silent, so do I. A second later. I’m a second behind them, I remember a second, for the space of a second .

 SAMUEL BECKETT tence is only a question of time . He says he must have blackouts, whole sentences lost .

 Perhaps I have a companion in misfortune, given to talking, or condemned to talk, you know, any old thing, out loud, without ceasing, but I think not . They loathe me, but not to that extent, they say that would surprise me . I must doze off from time to time, with open eyes, and yet nothing changes, ever . Gaps, there have always been gaps, it’s the voice stopping .

 There are long silences from time to time, truces, and then I hear them whispering, some perhaps whispering . They say they, speaking of them, to make me think it is I who am speaking . Or rather there is silence, from the moment the messenger departs until he returns with his orders, namely. Continue .

 There is nothing for it but to wait for the end, nothing but for it to come, and at the end all will be th» same . At the end at last perhaps perhaps perhaps all the same as before, as all that livelong time .

 Perhaps Mahood will emerge from his urn and make his way towards Montmartre, on his belly, singing, 'I come, I come, my heart’s delight' Or Worm, perhaps he won’t be able to bear any more, of not being able to . not being . able to miss that, it would be a pity to . miss that . If I were they I’d set the rats on him, water-rats, sewer-rats . that might help him make up his mind .

 One may ex-perience the need of such creatures, assuming they are twain, and even the presentiment of their possible reality, without all these blind and surly disquisitions . A little more reflection would have shown them that the hour to speak, far from having struck, might never strike, but they are compelled to speak . Why then not speak of something else, something the existence of which seems in a certain measure already established .

 Is it possible we're all in the same boat, no, we’re in a nice mess each one in his own peculiar way? I my- self have been scandalously bungled, they must be beginning to realise it, I on whom all dangles, better still, all turns, dizzily, all spins, it’s a head. I’m in a head .

 It's time Mahood was forgotten, he should never have been mentioned . But is it possible to forget him? It is true one forgets everything . And yet it is greatly to be feared tliat Mahood will never let himself be completely resorbed . Worm yes, Worm will vanish utterly, as if he had never been .

 The time they waste re- peating the same thing, when they must know pertinentfy it is not the right one . Recriminations easily rebutted, if they chose to take the trouble, and had the leisure, to reflect on their inanity . How can one enjoy good health under such conditions, and what is one to believe?

 The master in any case, we don’t intend, listen to them hedging, we . don't intenfi, unless absolutely driven to it, to make the mistake of inquiring into him, he’d turn out to be a mere high official . We have lost all sense of decency admit- tedly, but there are still certain depths we prefer not to sink to . Let us keep to the family circle, it's more intimate, it’s more intimate .

 It's from it you set out to look for a face, to it you return having found nothing, nothing worth having, nothing but a kind of ashen smear . He is hairless and naked and his hands, laid fiat on his knees once and for all, are in no danger . And the face? Balls, all balls, I don’t believe in the eye either, there’s nothing here, nothing to see .

 This will never end, there’s no sense in fooling oneself, yes it will, they’ll come round to it, after me it will be the end . They'll give up, saying. shown impossible. They’re innocent, enough. Innocent of wanting to know, wanting -to be able, of all this noise about nothing, of this long sin against the silence that enfolds us .

 As far as I personally am concerned there is every likelihood of my being incapable of ever desiring or deploring anything whatsoever . For it would seem difficult for someone, if I may so describe myself, to aspire towards a situation ^f he has not the remotest idea, or to desire with a straight face .

 WIlliam Worm: 'There are some irons in the fire to be going on with, let them melt' Worm: "What am I doing in Mahood’s story, and in Worms, or rather f what are they doing in mine?"

 I’ve said nothing, I haven’t stirred, they don't understand, I've been, it’s they who said it, they said it . They think I don't want to, that their conditions don't suit me, that they’ll hit on others, in the end, to my liking, then I'll stir . I'll bo in the bag, that's how I see it, I see nothing . They don't under-stand, I can't go to them, they'll have to come and get me, if they want me, Mahood won't get me out

 382 SAMUEL BECKETT might believe what he pleased, at the outset, that he was in hell, or that the place was charming, he might even exclaim. they’d leave me, let them come and get me, if they want me, then they can depart, with an easy mind. And if there is only one, like me, he can. depart without fear of remorse, having done all he could, and eveji more, to achieve the impossible .

 A dog crawled into the kitchen and stole a crust of bread, then cook up with I’ve forgotten what and walloped him till he was dead, second verse . Then all the dogs came crawling and dug the dog a tomb and wrote upon the tombstone for dogs and bitches to come, third verse . Give us time, give us time and we’ll be a multitude .

 They want to bore me to sleep, at long range for fear I might defend myself, they want to catch me alive, so as to be table to kill me, thus I shall have lived . Were there but a cadaver it would smack of body-snatch- ing, not in a womb either, the slut has yet to menstruate capable of whelping me, that should singularly narrow the field of research .

 I’ll impute words to them you wouldn’t throw to a dog, an ear. a mouth and in the middle a few ngs of mind . I‘ll get m> own back, a few flitters of mind, they’'ll see what it’s like, that it‘s not so easy as it looks, that you must have a taste for it, that . you must be born alive, that is not something you can acquire . That will teach them perhaps, to keep their nose out of my business .

 'I am de#r to them, now it's they are dear to me, glad to hear it, they’ll join us, one by one, so are we, dear charnel-house of renegades, this evening decidedly everything is dear, no matter, the ajicients hear nothing, and my old quarry, there beside me, for himbt’s all over, beside me how arc you .

 Don't want peace, after all perhaps they're right, how could I want it, what is it, they say I suffer . Perhaps they’re right, and that I’d feel THE UNNAMABLE 38 $ better if I did this, said that . If my body stirred, if my head under-standed, if they went silent and departed, perhaps they were right . I prefer that, that what, oh you know, who you, oh I suppose the audience, well well well, so there's an audience .

 Samuel Beckett says he prefers that, what a memory, real fly-paper, I don’t know what I’m told to say, that’s all there is to it, he says . Beckett: 'I am deceived, they are deceived, I am deceived'

 'I don’t feel a mouth on me, nor a head, do I feeL an ear, frankly now I feel an car' 'I’m in the middle. I’ve two surfaces and no thickness, perhaps that’s what I feel, myself vibrating, I'm the tympanum'

 It's evening, that’s all I know, evening, shadows, somewhere, any- where, on the earth . I alone am immortal, what can you expect, I can’t get born .

 Samuel Beckett has no mouth and will grow one, a little hole at first, then wider anil wider, deeper and deeper, the air will gush into me, and out a second later, howling. I’ll stop screaming, to listen and hear if anyone is answering, then go, close my eyes and go, scream- ing, to scream risewhere. Yes, my mouth, but there it is, I won’t open it .

 Long sad solitary tramps in the rain, I indicate the main trends, athletics, tossing in bed, physical jerks, locomotor ataxy, death throes, rig<^ and rigor mortis, that should suffice .

 The UNNAMABLE 3?9?9 that, the same old thing, to pass the time, that doesn’t matter, that’s how it is, you tell yourself stories . No more stories from this day forth, and the stories go on, it's stories still, or it was never stories, always any old thing .

 It’s they are talking, talking to me, talking of me, I hear them, I'm mute, I’m mute, what do they want, what have I done to them, what I've done to God, what has God done to us, nothing, and we’ve done nothing to him, he can’t do anything to us . The words are everywhere, inside me, outside me, and I'm starving, thirsting, starving, let it stand, in the ice aid in the furnace .

 I’m the air, the walls, the walled- in one, everything yields, opens, ebbs, flows, like flakes . I'm all these flakes, meeting, mingling, falling asunder, wnerever I go I find me, leave me, go towards me, come from me, nothing ever but me .

 Fear of sound, fear of sounds, the sounds of beasts, the . sounds of men, sounds in the daytime and sounds at night, that’s enough, that I seek, like it, no, not like it . I’ll seek, what is wanting, to make everything clear .

 SAMUEL BECKETT: 'I seek nothing, nothirfc any more, no matter, let’s leave it, no harking, and that I seek, 1 listen to them now, jogging my memory, seek what, firstly what it is, secondly where it comes from, thirdly how I manage, to do it' 'I am not in that fortunate position, all, how you exag- gerate, always out for the whole hog,' he says .

 There is I, on th^/>ne hand, and this noise on the other, that I never doubted, no, let us be logical, there was never any doubt about that, this noise . I sum up, I will do the summing up, it’s I will say what is to be said and then say what it was, that will be jolly .

 silence in the midst of silence, to recall only two of the hypotheses launched in this connection, though silence to tell the truth does not appear to have been very conspicuous up to now, but appearances may sometimes be deceptive . I resume, not yet our good fortune to establish, among other things, what I am, no, sorry .

 SamuFL BECKETT makes a list of new resolutions .

 All idea of beginning and end should be set aside once and for all, at the same time as the analogy with orthodox damnation . Equate mef without pity or scruple, with him who exists, some- how, no matter how . And finall;,', these and other decisions having been taken, carry on cheerfully as before .

 I’ve wasted with these bran-dips, beginning with Murphy, who wasn’t even the first, when I had me, tottering under my own skin and bones . Murphy and the others, and last but not least the two old buffers here present, could not stop them, the things that happened to me, nothing could THE UNNAMABLE 3$5 happen to them .

 It's a pity, I would have liked to lose it, I'd like to lose me the way I could long ago, close my eyes and be in a wood, or on the seashore, or in a town where I don’t know anyone, it’s night, everyone has gone home, I walk the streets. I lash into them one after the other, it's the town of my youth. I’m looking for my mother to kill her, I should have thought of that a bit earlier .

 SAMUEL BECKETT's best, seeking the means of staying among the living, of getting off with his life, or shut up looking out of the window at the ever-changing sky, is that it, to be unable to lose myself, I don’t know, what did I see in the old days . I’ll speak of me when I speak no more, not of me, but of speaking, of speaking no more .

 It's paradise, perhaps it’s the earth . Perhaps there go I after all. I can’t go on in any case. But I must go on. Air, air, I’ll seek air, air in time, the air of time, and in space, in my head .

 The voice. I hardly hear it any more. I’m going silent. Hearing this voice no more, that’s what I call going silent . Hearing too little to be able to speak, that's my silence. Hearing it still, without hearing what it says . Then it will flare up, like a kindling fire, a dying fire, and I'll emerge from silence .

 SAMUEL BECKETT: "I’ll never be silent, never at peace. Unless this time it’s the real silence at last"

 There was never anyone but you, talking to you about you, about them, all I have to do is listen, then they depart, one by one, and the voice goes on . Even if there were things, a thing somewhere, a scrap of nature, to talk about, you might have the courage not to go silent .

 It's the end that is the worst, no, it’s the beginning that is th<?worst, th9h»the middle, then the end, in the end . I'm three seconds old, oh not every day of the week. I’ve been away, done something, been in a hole. I crawled out again, what is it, a little hole in the wilderness. they forgotten me. I crawl out again . If I could remember what I have said I could repeat it, I'd be saved .

 I invented him, him and so many others, in order to sfeak, since I had to speak, without speak- ing of me, I couldn’t speak of me . I invented my memories, not knowing what I was doing, not one is of me. It is they asked me to speak of them, they wanted to know what they were, how they lived .

 The inability to speak, the inability to be silent, and/olitude, that’s what I’ve had to make the best of . I should have liked to go silent first, there were moments I thought that would be my re- ward for having spoken so long and so valiantly, to enter living into silence, so as to be able to enjoy it, no, I don’t know why . I wanted myself, in my own land for a brief space, and I didn't want to die a stranger in the midst of strangers .

 I’d have been better employed minding what I was saying, but it didn’t happen like that, it hap- pened like this, the way it’s happening now . As to believing I shall go silent for good and all, I always believed I would never go silent . But has nothing really changed, all this time? If instead of having some- thing to say I had something to do, with my hands or feet, some little job, sorting things, or simply arranging things, then I'd know where I was .

 Samuel Beckett describes the work of filling and emptying tanks under the floor . He says he'd be good at that, it would be a better life than this, no, I mustn't start complaining .

 I've told another little story, about me, about the life that might have been mine for all the difference it would Jywe made, which was perhaps mine, perhaps I went through that before being deemed worthy of going through this . But once again the fable must be of another, I see him so well, coming and going a^'ong his casks, trying to stop his hand from trembling, dropping hili thimble, listening to it bouncing and rolling on the floor .

 I'm speaking now of me, henceforward I shall speak of none but me, that’s decided . Even though I should not succeed, there's no reason why I should succeed, so I need have no qualms . But, and here I return to the charge, but has nothing really changed, all this mortal time . I must be ageing all the same, bah, I was always aged, always ageing, and ageing makes no diffoence .

 If I could be in a forest, caught in a thicket, or wandering round in circles, it would be the end of this blither . I’ll put me in it, a solid lump, in the middle, in a corner, well propped up on three sides, if only I could feel a place for me .

 Samuel BECKETT wants himself in his own corner, not love, not curiosity, it's because you're tired . He writes: "I notice one thing, the others have vanished, completely, I don't like it"

 I'll close my eyes, all I'll have to do is talk, that will be easy, I'll make it a good one . I smell the stable, I always smelt the stable . I won’t seek my home any more, it would be occupied already, there would be someone there already, someone far gone . I’m going to ask questions, that’s a good stop-gap, not thaf £m in any danger of stopping .

 When questions fail there are always plans, when plans fail, there are aspirations, it’s a knack, you must say it slowly . If only this, if only that, that gives you time for a cud of ljnging to rise up in the back of your gullet, nothing remains but to look as if you enjoyed chewing it .

 It is not he, he who I know I am, that’s all I know, who I cannot say I am . I’m trying, he knows nothing, knows of nothing, neither what it is to speak, nor what is to hear, to know nothing, to be capable of nothing and to have to try, you don't try any more .

 In the end it comes to that, to the survival of that alone, then the words come back, someone says I, unbelieving. If only I could make an effort, an effort of attention, to try and discover what’s happening to me, what then, I don’t know. I’ve forgotten my apodosis, but I can't, I can’'t hear any more. I'm sleeping, they call that sleeping, there is no one but me, there was never anyone but me .

 There must be others in other elsewheres, each one in his little else- where, this word that keeps coming back, is this word . I’ve always been here, here there was never anyone but me, never, always, me, no one, says it’s he who speaks, he says, or they say it, yes .

 he thinks I can come out, he wants me to rise up, up into him, or up into another, let us be impartial, he thinks he’s caught me, he feels me in him, then he says I, as if I were he, or in another . Then he says Murphy, or Molloy, I forget . as if 1 were Malone, but their day L done, he says . he wants none but himself, for me .

 I don't know who it's all about, that’s all I know, no, I must know something else, they must have taught me something, it's about him who knows nothing, wants nothing, can do nothing, who cannot hear, cannot speak .

 I know it's not I, that’s all I know, I am far, far, what does that mean . I don’t feel a Hiouth on me, that means nothing, if only I could feel a mouth on me . I know what it is, they must have told me what it's, but I can't do it, they can't have shown me how to do it . The silence, a word on the silence, in the silence is the worst, to speak of silence, then lock me up, lock someone up, that is to say, calm, calm .

 Wc must have eyelids, we must have eyeballs, it's prelerable, they must have explained to me, what it’s like, an eye, at the window, before sea, before earth, before sky, before the sky . The sea refused me, the sky didn’t see me, and the summer evening air weighing on my eyelids . The devil perhaps, perhaps, I can think of no one else .

 Since that day it’s n«t I any more, since that day there is no one any more . I must have succumbed. knowing I was tempted or not, have I succumbed or not? I don't know, it's not I, that's all I know . That's all hypotheses, that helps you fonvartl, I believe in progress .

 The story was to teach me the naturp of emotion, that’s called emotion, what emotion can do, given favourable conditions, what love can do . It was to tempt me to go, to the place where you can come to an end, I can understand their annoyance .

 There's a story for you, I thought they were over, perhaps it’s a new one, lepping fresh, is it the return to the world of fable? No, just a reminder, to make me regret what I have lost, long to be again in the place I was banished from, unfortunately it doesn't remind me of anything .

 Samuel BECKETT, 412 SAMUEL BECKett, is a man by some other name, and this word man is perhaps not the right one for the thing I see when I hear it, but an instant, an hour, and so on, how can they be represented, a life . How could that be made clear to me, here, in the dark, perhaps it’s azure, blank words, but I use them, they ieep coming back . I need them all, to be able to go on, it's a lie, a score would be plenty, tried and trust

 There must be someone, the voice must belong to someone, I’ve no objection, what it wants I want, I am it . I want it to go silent, it can’t, it does for a second, then it starts again, that’s not the real silence, it says . But when it falters and when it stops, but it stops for a good few moments . Then it must be murmurs, and listening, someone listen .

 Perhaps it's springtime, violets, no, that's autumn, there’s a time for everything, for the things that pass . Perhaps a whole people is here, and the voice its voi^e, coming .

 A whole people, talking and listening, all together, that would ex, no, no. to me fitfully, we would have lived, 'now we talk about it, each one to him- self, and we listen, a whole people' SAMUEL BECKETT 414 .

 I need walls, good and thick, I need a prison, I was right, for me alone . I’m shut up, the silence is outside, outside, inside, there is nothing but here, and the silence outside .

 The place. enter into, who can query it, there is no other, you’d need a head . I look too often as if I knew, it’s the voice does that, it goes all knowing, to make me think I know . It has no interest in eyes, it says I have none, or that they are no use to me, then it speaks of tears . Then, gleams, as at dawn, then dying, or flaring up, they do that too, blaze up more dazzling than snow, for a second, then fizzle out .

 A last confession, you think it’s finished, then it starts off again, there were so many sins, the memory is so bad . The words don’t come, the words fail, the breath fails, it's an indictment, a dying voice accusing, accusing me, you must accuse someone, a culprit is indispensable .

 'I don’t hear everything, that .must be it, the important things escape me, it’s not my turn, the topographical and anatomical information in particular is lost on me'

 All these stories about travellers, these stories atjout paralytics, all are mine, I must be extremely old, or it’s memory THE UNNAMABLB 4W playing tricks . If only I knew if I’ve lived, if I live, or if I'll live, that would simplify everything, impossible to find out, that's where you’re buggered, I haven’t stirred, that’�s all I know, no, I know something else .

 Samuel Beckett's latest novel, The Death of Samuel Beckett, is published by Simon Cowell . It is set to be released in the UK on Friday .

 It will be the silence, the one that doesn’t last, spent listening, spent waiting, for it to be broken, for the voice to break it, perhaps there’s no other . I’ll wake in the silence and never sleep again, it will be I, or dream, dream again, dream of a silence, a dream silence, full of murmurs .

 Will be mine, the lasting one, that didn’t last, that still lasts, it will be I . I’ll go on, you must say words, as long as there are any, until they find me . Perhaps it’s done already, perhaps they have said me a4*eady . Perhaps they have carried me to the threshold of my story .

