



Iteration 0


 Herman Melville's first novel, "Moby-Dick," was published in 1898 . The novel is set in New York . The main character is portrayed in the book .

 The Sub-Sub is a glancing bird’s eye view of what has been promiscuously said, thought, fancied, and sung of Leviathan . “The Indian Sea breedeth the most and the biggest fishes that are: among which the Whales and Whirlpooles called Balaene, take up the Indian Sea.”

 The whale is floating at the stern of the ship, they cut off his head, and tow it with a boat . “Myself have agreed to try whether I can master and kill this Sperma-ceti whale, for I could never hear of any of that of that .

 "My God! Mr. Chace, what is the matter?” I answered, “we have been stove by a whale.” ‘Io! Paean! Io! sing. To the finny people’s king. Not a mightier whale than this .

 The voyages of the Dutch and English to the Northern Ocean, in order, if possible, to discover a passage through it to India, failed of their main object . “The Whale is harpooned to be sure, but bethink you, how you would manage a powerful unbroken colt, with the mere appliance of of the . appliance of the whale,” says the author .

 The most absent-minded of men be plunged in his deepest reveries—stand that man on his legs, set his feet a-going, and he will infall infall . Why is almost every robust healthy boy with a robust healthy soul in him, at some time or other crazy to go to sea?

 Commodore on the quarter-deck gets his atmosphere at second hand from the sailors on the forecastle deck . The act of paying is perhaps the most uncomfortable infliction that the two orchard thieves entailed upon us .

 Where else but from Nantucket did those aboriginal whalemen, the Red-Men, first sally out in canoes to give chase to the Leviathan? I now by instinct followed the streets that took me waterward, for there, doubtless, were the cheapest, if not the cheeriest inns .

 The universe is finished; the copestone is on, and the chips were carted off a million years ago . But it’s too late to make any plans for the future . A boggy, soggy, squitchy picture truly, enough to drive a nervous man .

 There stands the vast arched bone of the whale’s jaw, so wide, a coach might almost drive beneath it . Within are shabby shelves, ranged ranged ranged from shabby .

 The more I pondered over this harpooneer, the more I abominated the thought of sleeping with him . He stood full six feet in height, with noble shoulders and a chest like a coffer-dam .

 I come to your house and want a bed; you tell me you can only give me half a one; that the other half belongs to a certain harpoone . "Landlord!" said I, “does he always keep such late hours?” It was now hard upon twelve o’clock.

 "I tore myself out of it in such a hurry that I gave myself a kink in the neck . I sat down on the side of the bed, and commenced to . commence . The story is said to have happened in a room in the same room as a large seaman’s hammock .

 A curious little deformed image with a hunch on its back, and exactly the colour of a three days’ old Congo baby . The savage goes up to the top of the head, but what to make of this head-peddling purple rascal altogether passed my comprehension .

 The counterpane was of patchwork, full of odd little parti-coloured squares and triangles . ‘Queequeg here wouldn’t harm a hair of your head.’

 At length, by dint of much wriggling, and loud and incessant expostulations upon the unbecomingness of his hugging a fellow male in the arms, I shudderingly remembered it all . I knew not how this consciousness at last glided away from me .

 Queequeg marched out of the room, wrapped up in his great pilot monkey jacket, and sporting his harpoon like a harpoon . The rest of his toilet was soon achieved, and he proudly marched out .

 The town itself is perhaps the dearest place to live in, in all New England . The streets do not run with milk; nor in the spring-time do they do . In New Bedford, actual cannibals stand chatting at street corners; savages outright .

 There are deadly voids and unbidden infidelities in the lines that seem to gnaw upon all Faith . The late CAPTAIN EZEKIEL HARDY was killed by a Sperm Whale on the coast of Japan .

 The architect, it seemed, had acted upon the hint of Father Mapple, and finished the pulpit without a stairs . The side ladder was not the only strange feature of the place, borrowed from the chaplain’s former sea-farings .

 Jonah's sin was in his wilful disobedience of the command of God . Jonah thinks that a ship made by men will carry him into countries where God does not reign . Nearly all joined in singing this hymn, which swelled high above the howling of the storm .

 ‘I seek a passage in this ship to Tarshish; how soon sail ye, sir?’ says the Captain . ‘No sooner, sir. ‘Point out my state-room, Sir,’ said Jonah now . Jonah now, 'I’m travel-weary; I need sleep.�

 Jonah, not yet supplicating God for mercy, since he but too well knew the darkness of his deserts . But observe his prayer, and learn a weighty weighty lesson . ‘I am a Hebrew,’ he cries—and then—‘I fear the Lord the God of Heaven who hath made the sea and the dry land’

 God spake unto the fish; and from the shuddering cold and blackness of the sea, the whale came breeching up towards the warm and pleasant sun . On the starboard hand of every woe, there is a sure delight; and higher the top of that delight, than the bottom of the woe is deep .

 Queequeg never consorted at all, or but very little, with the other seamen in the inn . He made no advances whatever; appeared to have no advances . There he sat, his indifference speaking a nature in which there lurked no civilized hypocrisies .

 To enjoy bodily warmth, some small part of you must be cold, for there is no quality in this world that is not what it is merely by contrast . I kindled the shavings; helped prop up the innocent little idol; offered him burnt biscuit with Queequeg .

 Queequeg was actuated by a profound desire to learn among the Christians, the arts whereby to make his people still happier than they were; and more than that that he wanted to make them happier .

 Queequeg had a particular affection for his own harpoon, because it was of assured stuff . The people of his island of Rokovoko express the fragrant water of young cocoanuts into a large stained calabash like a punchbowl .

 Queequeg caught the bumpkin in his arms, and by an almost miraculous dexterity and strength, sent him high up bodily into the air . The fellow landed with the fellow landing with him . All hands were in a panic; and to attempt snatching at the boom to stay alive .

 Nantucketers, born on a beach, took to the sea for a livelihood . Merchant ships are but extension bridges; armed ones but floating forts . Even pirates and privateers plunder other ships, other fragments of the land like themselves .

 Mrs. Hussey wore a polished necklace of codfish vertebra; and Hosea Hussey had his account books bound in superior old salt .

 You never saw such a rare old craft as this rare old Pequod . She was a ship of the old school, rather small if anything; with an old school .

 “Supposing it be the captain of the Pequod, what dost thou want of him?” he demanded . “I was thinking of thinking of Captain Ahab is the Captain of this ship, but I thought I was speaking to the Captain himself . ‘I am mistaken then, I am mistaken,’ he replied .

 People in Nantucket invest their money in whaling vessels, the same way that you do yours in approved state stocks bringing in good interest . Captain Bildad, a Quaker, was named with Scripture names, who, in childhood naturally imbibed the stately dramatic thee and thou of the Quaker .

 Bildad sat bolt-upright on the transom of the ship's cabin . He was absorbed in reading from a ponderous volume . I thought him the queerest old Quaker I ever saw, especially as Peleg seemed such a blusterer .

 Peleg was angry at Bildad for not having a conscience to lug about that would be heavy enough to founder the largest ship that ever sailed round Cape Horn . The seven hundred and seventy-seventh part of the farthing is a good deal less than seven hundred .

 Captain Ahab did not name himself. ’Twas a foolish, ignorant whim of his crazy, widowed mother, who died when he was only a twelve-year-old .

 Queequeg’s harpoon was missing . “He's killed himself,” she cried. “It will be the ruin of my house . I tried to burst open the door; but it stubbornly resisted . I thought, may be, you had both gone off and locked your baggage in .

 "For heaven's sake, Queequeg, get up and shake yourself," he says . "I have no objection to any person’s religion, be it what it may, so long as that person does not kill or insult any other person, because of the other person .

 Captain Bildad said Queequeg must show his papers to prove he's converted . Captain Peleg said he was a member of the First Congregational Church .

 Bildad: “Pious harpooneers never make good voyagers—it takes the shark out of ’em” Bildad said no more, but buttoning up his coat, stalked on deck, where we followed him . There he stood, very quietly overlooking some sailmakers .

 The beggar-like stranger stood a moment, as if in a troubled reverie; then starting a little, turned and said:—“Ye’s sorry I stopped ye.” “Look here, friend,” said I, “if you have anything important to tell us,’ said I .

 Of all ships, whaling vessels are the most exposed to accidents of all kinds . Never did any woman better deserve her name, which was Charity—Aunt Charity, as everybody called her . At one time she would come on board with a jar of ice cream .

 The profoundest slumber slept upon him. He was thrown at whole length upon two chests, his face downwards and inclosed in his folded arms . Queequeg stole up to us again, and suddenly clapped his hand on my shoulder .

 Captain Peleg and Captain Bildad were going it with a high hand on the quarter-deck, just as if they were to be joint-commanders at sea . On board the Pequod, for thirty years, the order to strike the tent was well known to be the next thing to heaving up the anchor .

 Bildad lingered long; paced the deck with anxious strides . "God bless ye, and have ye in His holy keeping, men,” murmured old Bildad . “I hope ye’ll have fine .”

 The world scouts at us whale hunters, yet does it unwittingly pay us the profoundest homage . But look at this matter in other lights; weigh it in all sorts of ways .

 The whale has no famous author, and whaling no famous chronicler, you will say . Who wrote the first account of our Leviathan? Who but mighty Job! The whale-ship is the true mother of that now mighty colony of Australia .

 Chief mate of the Pequod was Starbuck, a native of Nantucket, and a Quaker by descent . Starbuck was a long, earnest man . For all his hardy sobriety and fortitude, there were certain qualities in him which at times affected .

 Stubb was a native of Cape Cod; hence, according to local usage, was called a Cape-Cod-man . A happy-go-lucky man was a "happy-go" man . Stubb is known for his "immaculate manliness we feel within ourselves"

 Tashtego was an unmixed Indian from Gay Head, the most westerly promontory of Martha's Vineyard . Starbuck, Stubb, and Flask commanded three of the Pequod’s boats as headsmen .

 For several days after leaving Nantucket, nothing above hatches was seen of Captain Ahab . The harpooneers were a far more barbaric, heathenish, and motley set than any of the tame crew .

 The Pequod was only making a passage now; not regularly cruising . Captain Ahab stood erect, looking straight out beyond the ship’s ever-pitching prow . There was an infinity of firmest fortitude, a determinant determination .

 Captain Ahab advanced upon him with such overbearing terrors in his aspect, that Stubb involuntarily retreated . “No, sir; not yet,” Stubb said .

 Ahab dreamed he kicked him with an ivory leg, and when I tried to kick back, upon my soul, my little man, I kicked my leg right off . That’s what makes a blow from the hand, Flask, fifty times more savage to the hand .

 The classification of the constituents of the chaos is here essayed . Listen to what the best and latest authorities have laid down . Many are men, small and great, old and new, landsmen and seamen .

 A whale is a spouting fish with a horizontal tail . A walrus spouts much like a whale, but the walrus is not a fish, because he spouts .

 The Fin-Back is commonly the whale whose distant jet is so often descried by passengers crossing the Atlantic, in the New York packet-tracks . His grand distinguishing distinguishing feature is the right whale .

 Grampus whale is of moderate octavo size, varying from fifteen to twenty-five feet in length, and of corresponding dimensions round the waist . Bibliographical system is the only one that can possibly succeed, for it alone is practicable .

 The Narwhale has a very picturesque, leopard-like look, being of a milk-white ground colour . The Huzza Porpoise is the common porpoise found almost all over the world .

 There are a rabble of uncertain, fugitive, half-fabulous whales, which, as an American whaleman, I know by reputation, but not personally . In the old Dutch Fishery, two centuries and more ago, the command of a whale ship was not wholly lodged in the person now called the captain, but was not .

 The moody captain of the Pequod was the least given to that sort of shallowest assumption . Yet even Captain Ahab was by no means unobservantant .

 Ahab presided like a mute, maned sea-lion on the white coral beach, surrounded by his warlike mate . Ahab motioned Starbuck’s plate towards him, the mate received his meat as though receiving alms .

 Dough-Boy was the progeny of a bankrupt baker and a hospital nurse . Queequeg seated over against Tashtego, opposing his filed teeth to the Indian’s . Daggoo seated on the ground .

 The earliest standers of mast-heads were the old Egyptians; because, in all my researches, I find none prior to them . In Saint Stylites, the famous Christian hermit of old times, built him a lofty stone pillar .

 The thickest watch-coat is no more of a house than the unclad body . The soul is glued inside of its fleshy tabernacle, and cannot be glued inside .

 The whale-fishery furnishes an asylum for many romantic, melancholy, and absent-minded young men, disgusted with the carking cares of earth .

 Ahab came to a halt by the bulwarks, inserting his bone leg into the auger-hole there, and with one hand grasping a shroud, he grabbed shroud . Ahab, now half-revolving in his pivot-hole, reached high up shroud, and tightly, almost convulsively .

 Capt. Ahab: "To be enraged with a dumb thing, Captain Ahab, seems blasphemous. To me, the white whale is that wall, shoved near near the whale"

 The three mates quailed before his strong, sustained, and mystic aspect . ‘Stab me not with that keen steel! Cant them; cant them!” he cried, handing the heavy charged flagon to the nearest seaman .

 The hated whale has the round watery world to swim in, as the small gold-fish has its glassy globe . Hark! the infernal orgies are infernal . I now prophesy that I will dismember my dismemberer. Now, then, be the prophet and the fulfiller one.

 French sailor: "Let’s have a jig or two before we ride to anchor in Blanket Bay" Maltese sailor: “Where are you from?”

 In that ring Cain struck Abel Abel. No? Why then then, God, mad’st thou the ring? I, Ishmael, was one of that crew . My shouts had gone up with the rest; my oath had been welded with theirs .

 Rumors of the White Whale began with morbid hints, and half-formed fœtal suggestions of supernatural agencies . Not even at the present day has the original prestige of the Sperm Whale, as fearfully distinguished from all other species of the leviathan .

 Some whales have been captured far north in the Pacific, in whose bodies have been found the barbs of harpoons darted in Greenland seas . Some whalemen declared Moby Dick not only ubiquitous, but immortal (for immortality is but ubiquity in time)

 Ahab piled upon the whale’s white hump the sum of all the general rage and hate felt by his whole race from Adam down . When Ahab and anguish lay stretched together in one hammock, his torn body and gashed soul bled into one another .

 Ahab had purposely sailed upon the present voyage with the one only and all-engrossing object of hunting the White Whale .

 White is the symbol of the divine spotlessness and power . White man ideal mastership over every dusky tribe . The alb or tunic is the name of one part of the vesture worn beneath the cassock .

 Most famous in our Western annals and Indian traditions is that of the White Steed of the Prairies . Goney! never had heard that name before; is it conceivable that this glorious thing is utterly unknown to men ashore! never!

 The White Tower of London tells so much more strongly on the imagination of an untravelled American, than those other storied structures, its neighbors . Can we hope to light upon some chance clue to conduct us to the hidden cause we seek? Let us try .

 Ishmael: The sailor, shivering and half shipwrecked, views what seems a boundless churchyard grinning upon him with its lean ice monuments and splattered ice monuments . The muffled rollings of a milky sea; the bleak rustlings of the festooned frosts of mountains; the desolate shiftings of the windrow .

 Ahab was threading a maze of currents and eddies, with a view to the more certain accomplishment of that monomaniac thought of his soul . "There is somebody down in the after-hold that has not yet been seen on deck," he says .

 Moby Dick had in a former year been seen, for example, on what is called the Seychelle ground in the Indian ocean, or Volcano Bay on Volcano Bay . Allusion has only been made to whatever way-side, antecedent, extra prospects have been made .

 A whale, after receiving a harpoon, has effected a complete escape; and, after an interval (in one instance of three years), has been again struck by another whale . At such times, crazy Ahab, the scheming, unappeasedly steadfast hunter of the white whale, was not the agent that so caused him to flee .

 O Timor Tom! O New Zealand Jack! O Morquan! King of Japan . O Don Miguel! thou Chilian whale, marked like an old tortoise . New Zealand Tom and Don Miguel created great havoc among the boats of different vessels .

 Captain Pollard once more sailed for the Pacific in command of another ship, but the gods shipwrecked him again . For the second time his ship was utterly lost . The ship Union, also of Nantucket, was in the year 1807 totally lost off the Azores .

 Captain D’Wolf is a New Englander, who, after a long life of unusual adventures as a sea-captain, this day resides in the village of D'Wolf . Lionel Fernandes says the ship felt a terrible shock in the early hours of the morning .

 Ahab in all his thoughts and actions ever had in view the ultimate capture of Moby Dick . In modern times there have been isolated instances of the presence of the sperm whale in the Mediterranean .

 It was a cloudy, sultry afternoon; the seamen were lazily lounging about the decks, or vacantly gazing over into the lead-col . Ahab was conscious that he had indirectly laid himself open to the unanswerable charge of usurpation .

 Ahab was surrounded by five dusky phantoms that seemed fresh formed out of air . Ahab cried out to the white-turbaned old man at their head, “All ready there, Fedallah?”

 Stubb’s exordium to his crew is given here at large, because he had rather a peculiar way of talking to them in general, and especially to them . Well, well, so be it! Can’t be helped! All right! Give way, give way, Give way!

 The tyro saw a strange sight to see with what wondrous habitude of unconscious skill the whaleman will maintain an erect posture in his boat, even when it is lying still . Flask’s boat was also lying breathlessly still; its commander recklessly standing upon the top of the loggerhead .

 Ahab's men were hurrying to pull the boat, but he said, “Take it easy, I say, and burst all your livers and lungs . The vast swells of the omnipotent sea; the surging, hollow roar they made, as they rolled along the eight gunwales, like gigantic bowls in a bowl .

 Queequeg started to his feet, hollowing his hand to his ear, heard a faint creaking . The rising sea forbade all attempts to bale out the boat . The oars were useless as propellers .

 Sailors should be tinkering at their last wills and testaments, but there are no people in the world more fond of that . After the ceremony was concluded upon the present occasion, I felt all the easier; a stone was rolled away from my heart .

 Until Cabaco’s published discovery, the sailors had little foreseen it, though to be sure when, after being a little while out of port, all . Ahab had already revealed his intention to hunt Moby Dick in person . But such a supposition did by no means involve the remotest suspicion as to any suspicion .

 Ahab commanded the t’gallant sails and royals to be set, and every stunsail spread . A solitary jet seemed for ever alluring us on. But lo! at the same silent hour, it was again announced: again it was descried by all .

 The Goney (Albatross) by name . South-eastward from the Cape, off the distant Crozetts, a good cruising ground for Right Wh Wh .

 The ostensible reason why Ahab did not go on board was this: the wind and sea betokened storms . But even had this not been the case, Ahab would have encountered a stranger crossing the Pine Barrens in New York State or Salisbury Plain in England .

 The whale fishery has no seat astern, no sofa of that sort whatever, and no tiller at all . In a pirate, man-of-war’s men, and Slave-ship sailors, cherish such a scornful feeling .

 Whaler of Nantucket, the Town-Ho, Sperm Whaler, was cruising in your Pacific here, not very many days’ sail eastward . The leak was undiscovered by the captain .

 Radney may have laid him down on the lone Nantucket beach, to nurse at his maternal sea . Yet was this was this N.antucket sea .

 The order about the shovel was almost as plainly meant to sting and insult Steelkilt, as though Radney had spat in his face . ‘Lively, boys, lively, now!’ And with that the pump clanged like fifty fire-engines .

 For three hundred and sixty miles, through the entire breadth of the state of New York; through numerous populous cities and most thriving villages, flows one continual stream of corrupt corruption .

 ‘Will you promise not to touch us, if we do?’ demanded their ringleader . ‘Do you want to sink the ship, by knocking knocking out the ship’s captain? ‘I tell you what it is now, Captain, rather than kill ye, and be hung for such a shabby rascal, we won’t’

 "Thinking murder at hand, and smelling in the dark for the blood, he and all his armed mates and harpooneers rushed for the forecastle . Each insisted upon being the first man on deck, when the time to make the rush should come .

 The Town-Ho had a leak, but maintained its mast-heads, and its captain was just as willing to lower for a fish that moment, as on the moment . Steelkilt calculated his time, and found that his next trick at the helm would come round at two o’clock .

 "Radney was always a furious man, it seems, in a boat. And now his bandaged cry was, to beach him on the whale’s . All four boats gave chase again; but the whale eluded them, and finally wholly disappeared .

 The most ancient extant portrait purporting to be the whale’s, is to be found in the famous cavern-pagoda of Elephanta, in which the whale was found . ‘Though there are no Auto-da-Fés in Lima now,’ said one of the company to another; ‘I fear our . company’

 In old Harris’s collection of voyages there are some plates of whales extracted from a Dutch book . In another plate, the prodigious blunder is made . In the abridged London edition of 1807, there are plates of an alleged “whale” and a “narwhale .”

 The great Leviathan is that one creature in the world which must remain unpainted to the last . I know of only four published outlines of the great Sperm Whale; Colnett's, Huggins’s, Frederick Cuvier's and Be Be Bevier's .

 Even Scoresby, the justly renowned Right whaleman, treats us to a series of classical engravings of boat hooks, chopping knives, and grapnels .

 An ancient Hawaiian war-club or spear-paddle, in its full multiplicity and elaboration of carving, is as great a trophy of human perseverance as a great trophy . In bony regions of the earth, where at the base of high broken cliffs masses of rock lie strewn in fantastic groupings upon the plain .

 To landsmen in general, the native inhabitants of the seas have ever been regarded with emotions unspeakably unsocial and repelling . The accursed shark alone can in any generic respect be said to be said .

 The White Whale, the White Whale!’s re-appeared once more, with a stiletto-like cry . A vast pulpy mass, furlongs in length and breadth, of a glancing cream-colour, lay floating on the water .

 The whale-line is only two-thirds of an inch in thickness . By experiment its one and fifty yarns will each suspend a weight of one hundred and twenty pounds . When the painted canvas cover is clapped on the American line-tub, the boat looks as if it were pulling off .

 The six men composing the crew pull into the jaws of death, with a halter around every neck, as you may say . The profound calm which only apparently precedes and prophesies of the storm, is perhaps more awful than the storm itself .

 The whale flitted his tail forty feet into the air, and then sank out of sight like a tower swallowed up . “There go flukes!” screamed the Gay-header in reply, raising some old war-whoop to the skies .

 Stubb, firmly planting his knee in the clumsy cleat, darted dart after dart into the flying fish . When reaching far over the bow, Stubb slowly churned his long sharp lance into the fish, and kept it there .

 Two harpoons, each by its own cord, are both connected with the line . The object is to dart them both, if possible, one instantly after the other . The crotch is a notched stick of a peculiar form, some two feet in length .

 The whale now lies with its black hull close to the vessel’s . Stubb, his second mate, flushed with conquest, betrayed an unusual but still good-natured excitement . “A steak, a steak, ere I'm going to eat it,” says Stubb .

 The Old Fleece limped across the deck to the bulwarks to talk to the sharks . “Cook! why, damn your eyes, you mustnn’t watch!” Stubb heeded not the mumblings of the banquet .

 Stubb: "Do you belong to the church?” “Passed one once in Cape-Down,” said the old man sullenly . How old are you, cook? “’Bout ninety, dey say . “I want to know what I want to do, cook” he gloomily muttered .

 The spermaceti is the great prize ox of the sea, too fat to be delicately good . Many whalemen have a method of absorbing it into some of the whale's flesh .

 The Pequod was attacked by Queequeg and a forecastle seaman over the side of the ship . The whaling-spade used for cutting-in is made of the very best steel; is about the bigness of a man's spread hand .

 The blubber in one strip uniformly peels off along the line called the “scarf” simultaneously cut by the spades of Starbuck and St. George .

 The marks do not seem to be impressed upon the isinglass substance above mentioned, but seem as if they were engraved upon the body itself . Nor is this all about the skin or blubber of the whale . It has already been said, that it is stript from him in .

 The Sperm Whale's body may have been a real terror to his foes, in his death his ghost becomes a powerless panic to a world . The surgeon must operate from above, some eight or ten feet intervening between him and his subject .

 The Pequod's signal was set to see what response would be made . The stranger's boats and manned mast-heads proved her a whale-ship . The Jeroboam had a malignant epidemic on board .

 Gabriel warned the captain against attacking the White Whale, in case the monster should be seen . Some of the sailors, mostly poor devils, cringed, and some of them fawned before him . But a headlong wave shot the boat far ahead, and its seetheth was far ahead .

 Every whale-ship takes out a goodly number of letters for various ships . Delivery to the persons to whom they may be addressed, depends upon the mere chance of delivery .

 Queequeg's monkey-rope is found in all whalers; but it was only in the Pequod that the monkey and his holder were ever in . The monkey often pushed them aside with his floundering feet . Tashtego and Daggoo continually flourished over his head .

 A Sperm Whale had been brought alongside and beheaded, to the surprise of all, the announcement was made that a Right Whale should be captured that day . Stubb came with a dark flask in one hand, and a sort of tea-caddy in the other .

 Flask: "I take that Fedallah to be the devil in disguise. The old governor is hard bent after that White Whale"

 In disposing of the body of a right whale, when brought alongside the ship, the same preliminary proceedings commonly take place as in the case of a sperm whale . The boats were here hailed, to tow the sperm whale on the larboard side, where fluke chains and other necessaries were already prepared .

 It is impossible for a man to examine any two things at one and the same instant of time, never mind if they lie side by side and touch each other . The whale’s eyes are so planted as imperceptibly to blend their visual power, so as to produce one picture and not two .

 The Right Whale’s head bears a rather inelegant resemblance to a gigantic galliot-toed shoe . In most cases this lower jaw is disengaged and hoisted on deck for the purpose of extracting the ivory teeth .

 In the Right Whale’s mouth, there is no great well of sperm; no ivory teeth at all; no long, slender mandible of a lower jaw . One voyager in Purchas calls them the wondrous “whiskers” inside of the whale’�s . Another, “h .h.u.h.m.” another, ‘h .u’

 The severest pointed harpoon, the sharpest lance darted by the strongest human arm, rebounds from it . It has hypothetically occurred to me that ordinary fish possess what is called a swimming bladder in them .

 The Sperm Whale’s great Heidelburgh Tun is tapped . The Indian drops through the air, till dexterously he lands on the summit of the head . A large whale's case generally yields about five hundred gallons of sperm .

 Tashtego, buried-alive, was sinking utterly down to the bottom of the sea . Queequeg had dived to the bulwarks . Some hands now jumped into a boat alongside, and pushed a little off from the ship . “Ha! ha!” cried Daggoo, all at once .

 Physiognomically regarded, the Sperm Whale is an anomalous creature. He has no proper nose. The nose is the central and most conspicuous of the Leviathan .

 The whale, like all things that are mighty, wears a false brow to the common world . Unhinge the lower jaw, and the side view of this skull is as the side of a moderately inclined plane resting throughout on a level base .

 There were eight whales, an average pod . Captain Derick De Deer did indubitably conduct a lamp-feeder as Flask did . As he mounted the deck, Ahab abruptly accosted him .

 The Pequod’s three boats now began ranging almost abreast; and, so disposed, momentarily neared him . The short and long of it is, men, will ye spit fire or not?” “Oh! see the suds he makes!” cried .

 The burden of a whale, bearing on his back a column of two hundred fathoms of ocean! It must at least equal the weight of fifty atmospheres .

 The whale showed symptoms of sinking with all its treasures unrifled . Starbuck’s orders were quickly secured to it at different points .

 For young whales, in the highest health, and swelling with noble aspirations, prematurely cut off in the warm flush and May of life, with all their panting l . The Virgin crowding all sail, made after her four young keels, and thus they all disappeared far to leeward .

 According to the Greek mythologies, Crockett and Kit Carson were swallowed down and thrown up by a whale . Hercules may be deemed a sort of involuntary whal . Hercules .

 A German exegetist supposes that Jonah must have taken refuge in the floating body of a dead whale . Such a supposition would involve the complete circumnavigation of all Africa in three days .

 Look at him; he stands upright in the tossed bow of the flying boat . wrapt in fleecy foam, the towing whale is forty feet ahead . The great whales should have been spouting all over the sea, sprinkling and mistifying the gardens of the deep .

 It has been said that the whale only breathes through his spout-hole . Not by hook or by net could this vast leviathan be caught, when sailing a thousand fathoms beneath the sunlight .

 From the heads of all ponderous profound beings, such as Plato, Pyrrho, the Devil, Jupiter, Dante, and so on, there always goes up . Among whalemen, the spout is deemed poisonous; they try to evade it .

 Angelo paints even God the Father in human form, mark what robustness is there . While one sperm whale only fights another sperm whale with his head and jaw, nevertheless, in his conflicts with man, he chiefly and contemptuously uses his tail .

 The mightiest elephant is but a terrier to Leviathan, so, compared with Leviathan’s tail, his trunk is but the stalk of a lily . The more I consider this mighty tail, the more do I deplore my inability to express it .

 The Pequod may not have sighted one grain of soil in all that interval . The look-outs were repeatedly hailed, and admonished to keep wide awake .

 The Pequod, with a fresh leading wind, was herself in hot chase . The rascally Asiatics were now in hot pursuit, to make up for Ahab . Ahab's brow was left gaunt and ribbed, like some stormy tide has been gnawing it .

 Queequeg steered us manfully; now sheering off from this monster directly across our route in advance; now edging away from that, whose colossal flukes . Two thick squares of wood of equal size are stoutly clenched together, so that they cross each other's grain at right angles .

 Starbuck saw long coils of the umbilical cord of Madame Leviathan, by which the young cub seemed still tethered to its dam . The lake was to a considerable depth exceedingly transparent .

 The whales forming the margin of our lake began to crowd a little, and tumble against each other, as if lifted by half spent billows from afar . Then the boat was all but jammed between two vast black bulks, leaving a narrow Dardanelles between their long lengths .

 My Lord Whale has no taste for the nursery, however much for the bower . Being a great traveller, he leaves his babies all over the world . As ashore, the ladies often cause the most terrible duels among their rival admirers .

 American fishermen have been their own legislators and lawyers in this matter . Alive or dead a fish is technically fast, when it is connected with an occupied ship or boat, by any medium at all controllable by the occupant or occupants .

 The King, as Honorary Grand Harpooneer, must have the head, and the Queen be respectfully presented with the tail .

 The whale and the sturgeon are royal property under certain limitations, and nominally supplying the tenth branch of the crown . An allegorical meaning may lurk here .

 Frenchmen are content with their leavings, the drugged whale there, I mean; aye, and is content too with scraping the dry bones of that . The upper part of her stem-piece was carved in the likeness of a huge drooping stalk .

 Stubb was struck by a shower of outcries and anathemas proceeding from the Captain’s round-house abaft; and looking in that direction Stubb looked like a small and dark, but rather delicate looking man for a sea-captain .

 In 1791 a certain Nantucket-born Captain Coffin was examined at the bar of the English House of Commons on that subject . The precise origin of ambergrgr is not known .

 The motion of a Sperm Whale’s flukes above water dispenses a perfume, as when a musk-scented lady rustles her dress . A most significant event befell the most insignificant of the Pequod's crew .

 Stubb cursed Pip officially, unofficially gave him much wholesome advice . The sea was calm and cool, and flatly stretching away, all round, to the horizon, like gold-beater’s skin hammered out .

 "It had cooled and crystallized to such a degree that when, with several others, I sat down before a large Constantine’s bath of it, I found it . As I bathed my hands among those soft, gentle globules of infiltrated tissues, woven almost within the hour; as they richly broke to my fingers, and broke .

 Gurry is a term properly belonging to right whalemen, but sometimes incidentally used by sperm fishermen . The gaffman hooks on to a sheet of blubber, and strives to hold it from slipping . Meanwhile, the spade-man stands on the sheet .

 The intense heat of the fire is prevented from communicating itself to the deck . By a tunnel inserted at the rear, this reservoir is kept replenished with water as fast as possible .

 A strange (and ever since inexplicable) thing occurred to me. I was horribly conscious of something fatally wrong. The jaw-bone tiller smote my side, and I thought I . thought I had turned myself about, and was fronting the ship’s . stern, he said .

 The great leviathan hunts for his oil, so as to be sure of its freshness and genuineness . While still warm, the oil, like hot punch, is received into the six-barrel casks .

 Ahab was wont to pause in turn at each spot, and stand there strangely eyeing the particular object before him . But one morning, turning to pass the doublblbl, Ahab said he was struck by the object he was looking at .

 If we bend down our eyes, the dark vale shows her mouldy soil, but if we lift them, the bright sun meets our glance half way . ‘No fairy fingers can have pressed the gold, but devil’s claws must have left their mouldings there since yesterday,” murmured Starbuck .

 Flask: "I see nothing here, but a round thing made of gold, and whoever raises a certain whale, this round thing belongs to him" "There's another rendering now; but still one text. All sorts of men in one kind of world"

 Ahab had forgotten that since the loss of his leg he had never once stepped on board of any vessel at sea but his own . The one-legged Ahab was thrown over the side of a strange ship . The strange captain cried out, “I see, I see!—avastast!”

 The whale’s tail looms straight up out of it, perpendicular in the air, like a marble steeple . The tail cut my boat in two, leaving me with nothing to denote his gentlemanly rank on board . Dr. Bunger, ship's surgeon, had been all the time standing near them .

 The White Whale's digestive organs are so inscrutably constructed by Divine Providence, that it is impossible for him to completely digest even a man’s arm . Ahab asked the captain to explain what happened to the White Whale .

 In 1819, the same house fitted out a discovery whale ship of their own, to go on a tasting cruise to the remote waters of Japan . That ship, the Discovery whale ship, was fitted out in 1819 . I boarded her once at midnight somewhere off the Patagonian coast, and drank good flip in the forecastle .

 Dr. Snodhead translated an ancient and learned Low Dutch book of the commerce of Holland . The quantity of beer, too, is very large, 10,800 barrels .

 Arsacidean holidays with the lord of Tranque at his retired palm villa at Pu Pu Pu . The wood was green as mosses of the Icy Glen; the trees stood high and haughty, feeling their living sap .

 Sir Clifford’s whale has been articulated throughout; so that, like a great chest of drawers, you can open and shut him, in all his bodies . A Sperm Whale of the largest magnitude, between eighty-five to ninety feet in length, and something less than forty feet in its fullest circumference, such a whale .

 From his mighty bulk the whale affords a most congenial theme whereon to enlarge, amplify, and generally expatiate . There are forty and odd vertebræ in all, which in the skeleton are not locked together .

 Part of a skull was disinterred in the Rue Dauphine in Paris, a short street opening almost directly upon the palace of the Tuileries .

 The whale of to-day is as big as his ancestors in Pliny’s time, says the author . The moot point is, whether Leviathan can long endure so wide a chase, and so remorseless a havoc; whether he must not at last be exterminated from existence .

 Some philosophers conclude that this positive havoc has already seriously diminished their battalions . But for some time past a number of these whales, not less than less, have been hunted . There seems no reason to doubt that if these elephants, which have now been hunted for thousands of years, are now hunted .

 Ahab called the carpenter to set about making a new leg, and directed the mates to see him supplied with all the studs and joists of jaw-bone . Captain Peleg’s birth-mark in the brow of man, is but the stamp of sorrow in the signers .

 A carpenter was prepared at all points, and alike indifferent and without respect in all . Teeth he accounted bits of ivory; heads he deemed but top-blocks . He was a pure manipulator; his brain, if ever had one, must have early oozed along into the muscles of his fingers .

 Prometheus, who made men, they say, should have been a blacksmith, and animated them with fire; for what’s made in fire must properly belong to the man .

 The Pequod was drawing nigh to Formosa and the Bashee Isles, between which lies one of the tropical outlets from the China waters into the Pacific . Ahab had driven one leg to death, and spavined the other for life .

 Ahab asked Starbuck not to beware of Ahab, but let Ahab beware of ahab; but let ahab beware  beware of Starbuck . So deep did they go; and so ancient, and corroded, that you almost looked next for some mouldy corner-stone cask containing coins of Captain Noah .

 Queequeg was a whaleman in Nantucket, where he was laid in a coffin-canoe . There was some heathenish, coffin-coloured old lumber aboard, which, upon a long previous voyage, had been cut from the aboriginal groves .

 Queequeg said he had made every preparation for death; now that his coffin was proved a good fit, he suddenly rallied . A sick savage is almost half-well again in a day after convalescing .

 Ahab inhaled the salt breath of the new found sea; that sea in which the hated White Whale must even then be swimming . Perth, Perth, the begrimed Perth, was Perth, Australia . Perth was Perth's first stop on the voyage .

 Captain Ahab came along carrying in his hand a small rusty-looking leathern bag . The blacksmith's soul responded, Aye, I come! And Ahab: "In no Paradise myself, I am impatient of all misery in others that is not mad" Perth: "Can’st make it all smooth smooth"

 Three punctures were made in the heathen flesh, and the White Whale’s barbs were tempered . The Pequod was soon all astir in the fishery . Often, in mild, pleasant weather, for twelve, fifteen, eighteen, and twenty hours on .

 Nantucket ship, the Bachelor, had just wedged in her last cask of oil, and bolted down her bursting hatches . Everything was filled with sperm, except the captain’s pantaloons pockets, and those he reserved to thrust his hands into, in self-complacent testimony .

 When all the spearings of the crimson fight were done, sun and whale both stilly died together . Ahab sat intently watching his final wanings from the sea . The four whales slain that evening had died wide apart .

 The season for the Line at length drew near, and every day when Ahab cast his eyes aloft, the vigilant helmsman would ostentatiously handle the vessel . Ahab looked up towards the sun and murmured to himself: "Thou sea-mark! thou high and mighty Pilot!"

 The Pequod was torn of her canvas, and bare-poled was left to fight a Typhoon which had struck her directly ahead of her . Stubb: "Let the Typhoon sing, and strike his harp here in our rigging"

 The tableau all waned at last with the pallidness aloft; and once more the Pequod and every soul on her decks were wrapped in a shroud . To sailors, oaths are household words; they will swear in the trance of the calm and in the teeth of the tempest .

 Ahab's harpoon, the one forged at Perth’s fire, remained firmly lashed in its conspicuous crotch, so that it projected beyond his whale-boat . Light though thou be, thou leapest out of darkness, but I am darkness leaping out of light .

 The Pequod's jaw-bone tiller had several times been reelingly hurled to the deck by its spasmodic motions . Stubb: "No harm can come to the holder of the rod, unless the mast is first struck?"

 Ahab's hammock swings within; his head this way . A touch, and Starbuck may survive to hug his wife and child again . The very tube he pointed at me!—the very one; _this_ one—I hold it here; he would have killed me .

 The old man stood before the binnacle, and eyeing the transpointed compasses, with the sharp of his extended hand, now took the precise bearing of the compass . Mr. Starbuck, last night’s thunder turned our heads, said the old man with a rigid laugh exclaimed, “I have it! It has happened before .

 The wooden reel and angular log attached hung, long untouched, just beneath the railing of the after bulwarks . Rains and spray had damped it; sun and rain damped the reel . The Manxman took the reel, and holding it high up by the projecting handle-ends of the spindle .

 The Pequod sailed south-eastward by Ahab’s levelled steel, and her progress solely determined by the log and line . The Christian or civilized part of the crew said it was mermaids, and shuddered; but the pagan harpooneers remained unappalled .

 I like to take in hand none but clean, virgin, fair-and-square mathematical jobs, something that regularly begins at the beginning, and is at the middle of the middle . There are no caps at sea but snow-caps . Nail down the lid; caulk the seams; . pay over the same with pitch .

 The Pequod met with the Rachel, a large ship that was descending on the Peqod . The Rachel was the first ship to descend upon the Pequid .

 Nantucket captains often send a son of such tender age away from them, for a protracted three or four years’ voyage in some other ship than their own . “He’s drowned with the rest on ’em, last night,” said the captain .

 "Here he this instant stood; I stand in his air — but I'm alone" "Here I’ll stay, though this stern strikes rocks; and they strike rocks" "I am indeed down-hearted when you walk over me. But here I'll stay"

 When three or four days had slided by, after meeting the children-seeking Rachel, the monomaniac old man seemed distrustful of his crew’s . Ahab's whole life was now become one watch on deck; and though the Parsee's mystic watch was without intermission as his own .

 Ahab's hat was never restored; the wild hawk flew on and on with it; far in advance of the prow; and at last disappeared . Ahab’s hat was . never restored . As Ahab glided from the dejected Delight, the strange life-buoy hanging at the Pequod's stern .

 Ahab widowed that poor girl when he married her, Starbuck; and then, the madness, the frenzy, the . madness, . the frenzy ... with . the . boiling blood and the smoking brow, with with the . smoking brow . On such a day—very much such a sweetness, such a . sweetness as this—— Ahab says .

 Ahab ordered the ship’s course to be slightly altered, and the sail to be altered . Fedallah was motionlessly leaning over the same rail . Ahab called the men on deck to behold the famous whale they had so long been .

 Moby Dick slowly rose from the water; for an instant his whole marbleized body formed a high arch, like Virginia’s Natural Bridge . But these were broken again by the light toes of the whale .

 The sight of the splintered boat seemed to madden him, as the blood of grapes and mulberries cast before Antiochus’s elephants in the book . Ahab, the first to perceive the whale's intent, by the crafty upraising of his head, a movement that loosed his hold for the whale .

 The Pequod bore down in the leeward wake of Moby-Dick . It is often the case that when a boat is stove, its crew, being picked up by another boat, help to work that second boat .

 The pursuit of one particular whale, continued through day into night, and through night into day, is not unprecedented in the South sea fishery . The ship tore on; leaving such a furrow in the sea as when a cannon-ball, missent, becomes a plough-share and turns up the sea .

 Ahab’s boat was central; and cheering his men, he told them he would take the whale head-and-head . The men had mistaken some other thing for the whale-spout, as the event itself proved .

 The White Whale dashed his broad forehead against its bottom, and sent it, turning over and over, into the air . Some sprained shoulders, wrists, and ankles; livid contusions; . wrenched harpoons and lances; inextricable intricacies of rope; shattered rope .

 When dusk descended, the whale was still in sight to leeward . Then as the men went forward, he muttered on: “The things called omens.  Ahab is for ever Ahab, man. This whole act’s immutably decreed. ‘Twas rehearsed’

 Ahab descried the spout again, and instantly from the three mast-heads three shrieks went up as if the tongues of fire had voiced it . Ahab: "So, so; he travels fast, and I must down . But let me down .

 The boats had not gone very far, when by a signal from the mast-heads, Ahab knew that the whale had sounded . Suddenly the waters around them slowly slowly receding boat . “Heart of wrought steel!” murmured Starbuck .

 Ahab was fairly within the smoky mountain mist, which, thrown off from the whale’s spout, curled round his great, Monadnock . Ahab saw Tashtego, Queequeg, and Daggoo, eagerly mounting to the mast-heads . Oarsmen were rocking in the two stays .

 Ahab: "I grin at thee, thou grinning whale! Who ever helped Stubb, or kept Stubb awake, but Stubb’s own unwickedness." From the ship's bows, nearly all the seamen hung inactive; hammers, bits of plank, lances, and harpoons .

 The halfspent suction of the sunk ship reached me, but slowly, drawn towards the closing vortex . When I reached it, it subsided to a creamy creamy white colour . A sky-hawk that tauntingly had followed the main-truck downwards from its natural home among the stars, pecking at the flag, and incommommating the flag .




Iteration 1


 Herman Melville's first novel, "Moby-Dick," was published in 1898 . The novel is set in New York . The main character is portrayed in the book .

 The voyages of the Dutch and English to the Northern Ocean, in order, if possible, to discover a passage through it to India, failed of their main object . “The Whale is harpooned to be sure, but bethink you, how you would manage a powerful unbroken colt, with the mere appliance of of the . appliance of the whale,” says the author .

 The universe is finished; the copestone is on, and the chips were carted off a million years ago . But it's too late to make any plans for the future . A boggy, soggy, squitchy picture truly, enough to drive a nervous man .

 The story is said to have happened in a room in the same room as a large seaman's hammock . A curious little deformed image with a hunch on its back, and exactly the colour of a three days’ old Congo baby .

 Queequeg marched out of the room wrapped up in his great pilot monkey jacket, and sporting his harpoon like a harpoon . The rest of his toilet was soon achieved, and he proudly marched out . The town itself is perhaps the dearest place to live in, in all New England .

 Jonah's sin was in his wilful disobedience of the command of God . Jonah thinks that a ship made by men will carry him into countries where God does not reign . Nearly all joined in singing this hymn, which swelled high above the howling of the storm .

 Queequeg never consorted at all, or but very little, with the other seamen in the inn . He made no advances whatever; appeared to have no advances . There he sat, his indifference speaking a nature in which there lurked no civilized hypocrisies .

 Nantucketers, born on a beach, took to the sea for a livelihood . Merchant ships are but extension bridges; armed ones but floating forts . Even pirates and privateers plunder other ships, other fragments of the land like themselves .

 People in Nantucket invest their money in whaling vessels, the same way that you do yours in approved state stocks bringing in good interest . Captain Bildad, a Quaker, was named with Scripture names, who, in childhood naturally imbibed the stately dramatic thee and thou of the Quaker .

 ‘Twas a foolish, ignorant whim of his crazy, widowed mother, who died when he was only a twelve-year-old . ‘He's killed himself,” she cried. ‘It will be the ruin of my house . I tried to burst open the door; but it stubbornly resisted . Captain Ahab did not name himself .

 Bildad: “Pious harpooneers never make good voyagers—it takes the shark out of ’em” Bildad said no more, but buttoning up his coat, stalked on deck, where we followed him .

 Captain Peleg and Captain Bildad were going it with a high hand on the quarter-deck, just as if they were to be joint-commanders at sea . On board the Pequod, for thirty years, the order to strike the tent was well known to be the next thing to heaving up the anchor .

 Chief mate of the Pequod was Starbuck, a native of Nantucket, and a Quaker by descent . Starbuck was a long, earnest man . Stubb is known for his "immaculate manliness we feel within ourselves"

 Captain Ahab advanced upon him with such overbearing terrors in his aspect, that Stubb involuntarily retreated . The Pequod was only making a passage now; not regularly cruising .

 Fin-Back is commonly the whale whose distant jet is so often descried by passengers crossing the Atlantic, in the New York packet-tracks . A whale is a spouting fish with a horizontal tail . A walrus spouts much like a whale, but the walrus is not a fish, because he spouts .

 There are a rabble of uncertain, fugitive, half-fabulous whales, which, as an American whaleman, I know by reputation, but not personally . In the old Dutch Fishery, two centuries and more ago, the command of a whale ship was not wholly lodged in the person now called the captain, but was not .

 The thickest watch-coat is no more of a house than the unclad body . The soul is glued inside of its fleshy tabernacle, and cannot be glued inside . The earliest standers of mast-heads were the old Egyptians .

 Capt. Ahab: "To be enraged with a dumb thing, Captain Ahab, seems blasphemous. To me, the white whale is that wall, shoved near near the whale"

 Rumors of the White Whale began with morbid hints and half-formed fœtal suggestions of supernatural agencies . Not even at the present day has the original prestige of the Sperm Whale, as fearfully distinguished from all other species of the leviathan .

 White is the symbol of the divine spotlessness and power . White man ideal mastership over every dusky tribe . The alb or tunic is the name of one part of the vesture worn beneath the cassock .

 Ishmael: The sailor, shivering and half shipwrecked, views what seems a boundless churchyard grinning upon him with its lean ice monuments and splattered ice monuments . "There is somebody down in the after-hold that has not yet been seen on deck," he says .

 Captain Pollard once more sailed for the Pacific in command of another ship, but the gods shipwrecked him again . The ship Union, also of Nantucket, was in the year 1807 totally lost off the Azores .

 Ahab was conscious that he had indirectly laid himself open to the unanswerable charge of usurpation . Ahab cried out to the white-turbaned old man at their head, “All ready there, Fedallah?”

 Ahab's men were hurrying to pull the boat, but he said, “Take it easy, I say, and burst all your livers and lungs . The vast swells of the omnipotent sea; the surging, hollow roar they made, as they rolled along the eight gunwales, like gigantic bowls in a bowl .

 Ahab commanded the t’gallant sails and royals to be set, and every stunsail spread . A solitary jet seemed for ever alluring us on . But lo! at the same silent hour, it was again announced: again it was descried by all . South-eastward from the Cape, off the distant Crozetts, is a good cruising ground for Right Wh Wh .

 The leak was undiscovered by the captain . Radney may have laid him down on the lone Nantucket beach, to nurse at his maternal sea .

 "Thinking murder at hand, and smelling in the dark for the blood, he and all his armed mates and harpooneers rushed for the forecastle . Each insisted upon being the first man on deck, when the time to make the rush should come . ‘Will you promise not to touch us, if we do?’ demanded their ringleader .

 In old Harris’s collection of voyages there are some plates of whales extracted from a Dutch book . In another plate, the prodigious blunder is made . In the abridged London edition of 1807, there are plates of an alleged “whale” and a “narwhale .”

 An ancient Hawaiian war-club or spear-paddle, in its full multiplicity and elaboration of carving, is as great a trophy of human perseverance as a great trophy . To landsmen, the native inhabitants of the seas have ever been regarded with emotions unspeakably unsocial and repelling .

 The six men composing the crew pull into the jaws of death, with a halter around every neck, as you may say . The profound calm which only apparently precedes and prophesies of the storm, is perhaps more awful than the storm itself .

 The whale now lies with its black hull close to the vessel’s . Stubb, his second mate, flushed with conquest, betrayed an unusual but still good-natured excitement . “A steak, a steak, ere I'm going to eat it,” says Stubb .

 The Pequod was attacked by Queequeg and a forecastle seaman over the side of the ship . The blubber in one strip uniformly peels off along the line called the “scarf” simultaneously cut by Starbuck and St. George .

 Gabriel warned the captain against attacking the White Whale, in case the monster should be seen . Some of the sailors, mostly poor devils, cringed, and some of them fawned before him . But a headlong wave shot the boat far ahead, and its seetheth was far ahead .

 A Sperm Whale had been brought alongside and beheaded, to the surprise of all, the announcement was made that a Right Whale should be captured that day . Stubb came with a dark flask in one hand, and sort of tea-caddy in the other .

 The Right Whale’s head bears a rather inelegant resemblance to a gigantic galliot-toed shoe . In most cases this lower jaw is disengaged and hoisted on deck for the purpose of extracting the ivory teeth . One voyager in Purchas calls them the wondrous “whiskers” inside of the whale’�s .

 Physiognomically regarded, the Sperm Whale is an anomalous creature . He has no proper nose . The nose is the central and most conspicuous of the Leviathan .

 The Pequod’s three boats now began ranging almost abreast; and, so disposed, momentarily neared him . The short and long of it is, men, will ye spit fire or not?” “Oh! see the suds he makes!” cried .

 According to the Greek mythologies, Crockett and Kit Carson were swallowed down and thrown up by a whale . Hercules may be deemed a sort of involuntary whal . A German exegetist supposes that Jonah must have taken refuge in the floating body of a dead whale .

 Angelo paints even God the Father in human form, mark what robustness is there . While one sperm whale only fights another sperm whale with his head and jaw, nevertheless, in his conflicts with man, he chiefly uses his tail .

 The Pequod, with a fresh leading wind, was herself in hot chase . The rascally Asiatics were now in hot pursuit, to make up for Ahab . Queequeg steered us manfully; now sheering off from this monster directly across our route in advance .

 My Lord Whale has no taste for the nursery, however much for the bower . Being a great traveller, he leaves his babies all over the world .

 Frenchmen are content with their leavings, the drugged whale there, I mean; aye, and is content too with scraping the dry bones of that . The upper part of her stem-piece was carved in the likeness of a huge drooping stalk .

 Stubb cursed Pip officially, unofficially gave him much wholesome advice . The sea was calm and cool, and flatly stretching away, all round, to the horizon, like gold-beater’s skin hammered out .

 The jaw-bone tiller smote my side, and I thought I had turned myself about, and was fronting the ship’s . stern, he said . The great leviathan hunts for his oil, so as to be sure of its freshness and genuineness . While still warm, the oil, like hot punch, is received into the six-barrel casks .

 Ahab had forgotten that since the loss of his leg he had never once stepped on board of any vessel at sea but his own . The one-legged Ahab was thrown over the side of a strange ship .

 In 1819, the same house fitted out a discovery whale ship of their own, to go on a tasting cruise to remote waters of Japan . That ship, the Discovery whale ship, was fitted out in 1819 . I boarded her once at midnight somewhere off the Patagonian coast, and drank good flip in the forecastle .

 There are forty and odd vertebræ in all, which in the skeleton are not locked together . Part of a skull was disinterred in the Rue Dauphine in Paris, a short street opening almost directly upon the palace of the Tuileries .

 Ahab called the carpenter to set about making a new leg, and directed the mates to see him supplied with all the studs and joists of jaw-bone . Captain Peleg’s birth-mark in the brow of man, is but the stamp of sorrow in the signers .

 Queequeg was a whaleman in Nantucket, where he was laid in a coffin-canoe . There was some heathenish, coffin-coloured old lumber aboard, which, upon a long previous voyage, had been cut from the aboriginal groves .

 Three punctures were made in the heathen flesh, and the White Whale’s barbs were tempered . The Pequod was soon all astir in the fishery . Perth: "Can’st make it all smooth smooth smooth"

 The Pequod was torn of her canvas, and bare-poled was left to fight a Typhoon which had struck her directly ahead of her . Stubb: "Let the Typhoon sing, and strike his harp here in our rigging"

 The Pequod's jaw-bone tiller had several times been reelingly hurled to the deck by its spasmodic motions . Stubb: "No harm can come to the holder of the rod, unless the mast is first struck?" A touch, and Starbuck may survive to hug his wife and child again .

 The Pequod sailed south-eastward by Ahab’s levelled steel, and her progress solely determined by the log and line . The Christian or civilized part of the crew said it was mermaids, and shuddered; but the pagan harpooneers remained unappalled .

 "Here he this instant stood; I stand in his air — but I'm alone" "Here I’ll stay, though this stern strikes rocks; and they strike rocks" "I am indeed down-hearted when you walk over me"

 Ahab ordered the ship’s course to be slightly altered, and the sail to be altered . Fedallah was motionlessly leaning over the same rail . Ahab called the men on deck to behold the famous whale they had so long been . Moby Dick slowly rose from the water; for an instant his whole marbleized body formed a high arch .

 Ahab’s boat was central; and cheering his men, he told them he would take the whale head-and-head . The men had mistaken some other thing for the whale-spout, as the event itself proved . The ship tore on; leaving such a furrow in the sea as when a cannon-ball, missent, becomes a plough-share and turns up the sea .

 Ahab descried the spout again, and instantly from the three mast-heads three shrieks went up as if the tongues of fire had voiced it . Suddenly the waters around them slowly slowly slowly receding boat . “Heart of wrought steel!” murmured Starbuck .

 The halfspent suction of the sunk ship reached me, but slowly, drawn towards the closing vortex . When I reached it, it subsided to a creamy creamy white colour . A sky-hawk that tauntingly had followed the main-truck downwards from its natural home among the stars, pecking at the flag, and incommommating the flag .




Iteration 2


 Herman Melville's first novel, "Moby-Dick," was published in 1898 . The novel is set in New York . The voyages of the Dutch and English to the Northern Ocean, in order to discover a passage through it to India, failed .

 Queequeg marched out of the room wrapped up in his great pilot monkey jacket, and sporting his harpoon like a harpoon . The rest of his toilet was soon achieved, and he proudly marched out . The town itself is perhaps the dearest place to live in, in all New England .

 Captain Bildad, a Quaker, was named with Scripture names, who, in childhood naturally imbibed the stately dramatic thee and thou of the Quaker . ‘Twas a foolish, ignorant whim of his crazy, widowed mother, who died when he was only a twelve-year-old .  People in Nantucket invest their money in whaling vessels, the same way that you do yours in approved state stocks .

 Chief mate of the Pequod was Starbuck, a native of Nantucket, and a Quaker by descent . Starbuck was a long, earnest man . Captain Ahab advanced upon him with such overbearing terrors in his aspect, that Stubb involuntarily retreated .

 Capt. Ahab: "To be enraged with a dumb thing, Captain Ahab, seems blasphemous. To me, the white whale is that wall, shoved near near the whale"

 Captain Pollard once more sailed for the Pacific in command of another ship, but the gods shipwrecked him again . The ship Union, also of Nantucket, was in the year 1807 totally lost off the Azores .

 Ahab commanded the t’gallant sails and royals to be set, and every stunsail spread . A solitary jet seemed for ever alluring us on . But lo! at the same silent hour, it was again announced: again it was descried by all .

 An ancient Hawaiian war-club or spear-paddle is as great a trophy of human perseverance as a great trophy . To landsmen, the native inhabitants of the seas have ever been regarded with emotions unspeakably unsocial and repelling .

 Gabriel warned the captain against attacking the White Whale, in case the monster should be seen . But a headlong wave shot the boat far ahead, and its seetheth was far ahead . A Sperm Whale had been brought alongside and beheaded, to the surprise of all, the announcement was made that a Right Whale should be captured that day .

 The Pequod’s three boats now began ranging almost abreast; and, so disposed, momentarily neared him . “Oh! see the suds he makes!” cried . According to the Greek mythologies, Crockett and Kit Carson were swallowed down and thrown up by a whale . Hercules may be deemed a sort of involuntary whal .

 My Lord Whale has no taste for the nursery, however much for the bower . The upper part of her stem-piece was carved in the likeness of a huge drooping stalk .

 Ahab had forgotten that since the loss of his leg he had never once stepped on board of any vessel at sea but his own . The one-legged Ahab was thrown over the side of a strange ship . In 1819, the same house fitted out a discovery whale ship of their own, to go on a tasting cruise to remote waters of Japan .

 Queequeg was a whaleman in Nantucket, where he was laid in a coffin-canoe . There was some heathenish, coffin-coloured old lumber aboard, which, upon a long previous voyage, had been cut from aboriginal groves . Three punctures were made in the heathen flesh, and the White Whale’s barbs were tempered .

 The Pequod sailed south-eastward by Ahab’s levelled steel, and her progress solely determined by the log and line . Christian or civilized part of the crew said it was mermaids, and shuddered; but the pagan harpooneers remained unappalled .

 The halfspent suction of the sunk ship reached me, but slowly, drawn towards the closing vortex . When I reached it, it subsided to a creamy creamy white colour . A sky-hawk followed the main-truck downwards from its natural home among the stars, pecking at the flag, and incommommating the flag .




Iteration 3


 Herman Melville's first novel, "Moby-Dick," was published in 1898 . The novel is set in New York . The voyages of the Dutch and English to the Northern Ocean, in order to discover a passage through it to India, failed .

 The ship Union, also of Nantucket, was in the year 1807 totally lost off the Azores . Captain Pollard once more sailed for the Pacific in command of another ship, but the gods shipwrecked him again .

 Gabriel warned the captain against attacking the White Whale, in case the monster should be seen . But a headlong wave shot the boat far ahead, and its seetheth was far ahead . A Sperm Whale had been brought alongside and beheaded, to the surprise of all, a Right Whale should be captured that day .

 Queequeg was a whaleman in Nantucket, where he was laid in a coffin-canoe . There was some heathenish, coffin-coloured old lumber aboard, which, upon a long previous voyage, had been cut from aboriginal groves . Christian or civilized part of the crew said it was mermaids, and shuddered; but the pagan harpooneers remained unappalled .




Iteration 4


 Herman Melville's first novel, "Moby-Dick," was published in 1898 . The novel is set in New York . The voyages of the Dutch and English to the Northern Ocean, in order to discover a passage through it to India, failed .




Iteration 5


 Herman Melville's first novel, "Moby-Dick," was published in 1898 . The novel is set in New York . The voyages of the Dutch and English to the Northern Ocean, in order to discover a passage through it, failed .




Iteration 6


 Herman Melville's first novel, "Moby-Dick," was published in 1898 . The novel is set in New York . The voyages of the Dutch and English to the Northern Ocean, in order to discover a passage through it, failed .




Iteration 7


 Herman Melville's first novel, "Moby-Dick," was published in 1898 . The novel is set in New York . The voyages of the Dutch and English to the Northern Ocean, in order to discover a passage through it, failed .




Iteration 8


 Herman Melville's first novel, "Moby-Dick," was published in 1898 . The novel is set in New York . The voyages of the Dutch and English to the Northern Ocean, in order to discover a passage through it, failed .




Iteration 9


 Herman Melville's first novel, "Moby-Dick," was published in 1898 . The novel is set in New York . The voyages of the Dutch and English to the Northern Ocean, in order to discover a passage through it, failed .




Iteration 10


 Herman Melville's first novel, "Moby-Dick," was published in 1898 . The novel is set in New York . The voyages of the Dutch and English to the Northern Ocean, in order to discover a passage through it, failed .




Iteration 11


 Herman Melville's first novel, "Moby-Dick," was published in 1898 . The novel is set in New York . The voyages of the Dutch and English to the Northern Ocean, in order to discover a passage through it, failed .




Iteration 12


 Herman Melville's first novel, "Moby-Dick," was published in 1898 . The novel is set in New York . The voyages of the Dutch and English to the Northern Ocean, in order to discover a passage through it, failed .




Iteration 13


 Herman Melville's first novel, "Moby-Dick," was published in 1898 . The novel is set in New York . The voyages of the Dutch and English to the Northern Ocean, in order to discover a passage through it, failed .




Iteration 14


 Herman Melville's first novel, "Moby-Dick," was published in 1898 . The novel is set in New York . The voyages of the Dutch and English to the Northern Ocean, in order to discover a passage through it, failed .




Iteration 15


 Herman Melville's first novel, "Moby-Dick," was published in 1898 . The novel is set in New York . The voyages of the Dutch and English to the Northern Ocean, in order to discover a passage through it, failed .




Iteration 16


 Herman Melville's first novel, "Moby-Dick," was published in 1898 . The novel is set in New York . The voyages of the Dutch and English to the Northern Ocean, in order to discover a passage through it, failed .




Iteration 17


 Herman Melville's first novel, "Moby-Dick," was published in 1898 . The novel is set in New York . The voyages of the Dutch and English to the Northern Ocean, in order to discover a passage through it, failed .




Iteration 18


 Herman Melville's first novel, "Moby-Dick," was published in 1898 . The novel is set in New York . The voyages of the Dutch and English to the Northern Ocean, in order to discover a passage through it, failed .




Iteration 19


 Herman Melville's first novel, "Moby-Dick," was published in 1898 . The novel is set in New York . The voyages of the Dutch and English to the Northern Ocean, in order to discover a passage through it, failed .




Iteration 20


 Herman Melville's first novel, "Moby-Dick," was published in 1898 . The novel is set in New York . The voyages of the Dutch and English to the Northern Ocean, in order to discover a passage through it, failed .




Iteration 21


 Herman Melville's first novel, "Moby-Dick," was published in 1898 . The novel is set in New York . The voyages of the Dutch and English to the Northern Ocean, in order to discover a passage through it, failed .




Iteration 22


 Herman Melville's first novel, "Moby-Dick," was published in 1898 . The novel is set in New York . The voyages of the Dutch and English to the Northern Ocean, in order to discover a passage through it, failed .




Iteration 23


 Herman Melville's first novel, "Moby-Dick," was published in 1898 . The novel is set in New York . The voyages of the Dutch and English to the Northern Ocean, in order to discover a passage through it, failed .




Iteration 24


 Herman Melville's first novel, "Moby-Dick," was published in 1898 . The novel is set in New York . The voyages of the Dutch and English to the Northern Ocean, in order to discover a passage through it, failed .




Iteration 25


 Herman Melville's first novel, "Moby-Dick," was published in 1898 . The novel is set in New York . The voyages of the Dutch and English to the Northern Ocean, in order to discover a passage through it, failed .




Iteration 26


 Herman Melville's first novel, "Moby-Dick," was published in 1898 . The novel is set in New York . The voyages of the Dutch and English to the Northern Ocean, in order to discover a passage through it, failed .




Iteration 27


 Herman Melville's first novel, "Moby-Dick," was published in 1898 . The novel is set in New York . The voyages of the Dutch and English to the Northern Ocean, in order to discover a passage through it, failed .




Iteration 28


 Herman Melville's first novel, "Moby-Dick," was published in 1898 . The novel is set in New York . The voyages of the Dutch and English to the Northern Ocean, in order to discover a passage through it, failed .




Iteration 29


 Herman Melville's first novel, "Moby-Dick," was published in 1898 . The novel is set in New York . The voyages of the Dutch and English to the Northern Ocean, in order to discover a passage through it, failed .




Iteration 30


 Herman Melville's first novel, "Moby-Dick," was published in 1898 . The novel is set in New York . The voyages of the Dutch and English to the Northern Ocean, in order to discover a passage through it, failed .




Iteration 31


 Herman Melville's first novel, "Moby-Dick," was published in 1898 . The novel is set in New York . The voyages of the Dutch and English to the Northern Ocean, in order to discover a passage through it, failed .




Iteration 32


 Herman Melville's first novel, "Moby-Dick," was published in 1898 . The novel is set in New York . The voyages of the Dutch and English to the Northern Ocean, in order to discover a passage through it, failed .




Iteration 33


 Herman Melville's first novel, "Moby-Dick," was published in 1898 . The novel is set in New York . The voyages of the Dutch and English to the Northern Ocean, in order to discover a passage through it, failed .




Iteration 34


 Herman Melville's first novel, "Moby-Dick," was published in 1898 . The novel is set in New York . The voyages of the Dutch and English to the Northern Ocean, in order to discover a passage through it, failed .




Iteration 35


 Herman Melville's first novel, "Moby-Dick," was published in 1898 . The novel is set in New York . The voyages of the Dutch and English to the Northern Ocean, in order to discover a passage through it, failed .




Iteration 36


 Herman Melville's first novel, "Moby-Dick," was published in 1898 . The novel is set in New York . The voyages of the Dutch and English to the Northern Ocean, in order to discover a passage through it, failed .




Iteration 37


 Herman Melville's first novel, "Moby-Dick," was published in 1898 . The novel is set in New York . The voyages of the Dutch and English to the Northern Ocean, in order to discover a passage through it, failed .




Iteration 38


 Herman Melville's first novel, "Moby-Dick," was published in 1898 . The novel is set in New York . The voyages of the Dutch and English to the Northern Ocean, in order to discover a passage through it, failed .




Iteration 39


 Herman Melville's first novel, "Moby-Dick," was published in 1898 . The novel is set in New York . The voyages of the Dutch and English to the Northern Ocean, in order to discover a passage through it, failed .




Iteration 40


 Herman Melville's first novel, "Moby-Dick," was published in 1898 . The novel is set in New York . The voyages of the Dutch and English to the Northern Ocean, in order to discover a passage through it, failed .




Iteration 41


 Herman Melville's first novel, "Moby-Dick," was published in 1898 . The novel is set in New York . The voyages of the Dutch and English to the Northern Ocean, in order to discover a passage through it, failed .




Iteration 42


 Herman Melville's first novel, "Moby-Dick," was published in 1898 . The novel is set in New York . The voyages of the Dutch and English to the Northern Ocean, in order to discover a passage through it, failed .




Iteration 43


 Herman Melville's first novel, "Moby-Dick," was published in 1898 . The novel is set in New York . The voyages of the Dutch and English to the Northern Ocean, in order to discover a passage through it, failed .




Iteration 44


 Herman Melville's first novel, "Moby-Dick," was published in 1898 . The novel is set in New York . The voyages of the Dutch and English to the Northern Ocean, in order to discover a passage through it, failed .




Iteration 45


 Herman Melville's first novel, "Moby-Dick," was published in 1898 . The novel is set in New York . The voyages of the Dutch and English to the Northern Ocean, in order to discover a passage through it, failed .




Iteration 46


 Herman Melville's first novel, "Moby-Dick," was published in 1898 . The novel is set in New York . The voyages of the Dutch and English to the Northern Ocean, in order to discover a passage through it, failed .




Iteration 47


 Herman Melville's first novel, "Moby-Dick," was published in 1898 . The novel is set in New York . The voyages of the Dutch and English to the Northern Ocean, in order to discover a passage through it, failed .




Iteration 48


 Herman Melville's first novel, "Moby-Dick," was published in 1898 . The novel is set in New York . The voyages of the Dutch and English to the Northern Ocean, in order to discover a passage through it, failed .




Iteration 49


 Herman Melville's first novel, "Moby-Dick," was published in 1898 . The novel is set in New York . The voyages of the Dutch and English to the Northern Ocean, in order to discover a passage through it, failed .




Iteration 50


 Herman Melville's first novel, "Moby-Dick," was published in 1898 . The novel is set in New York . The voyages of the Dutch and English to the Northern Ocean, in order to discover a passage through it, failed .




Iteration 51


 Herman Melville's first novel, "Moby-Dick," was published in 1898 . The novel is set in New York . The voyages of the Dutch and English to the Northern Ocean, in order to discover a passage through it, failed .




Iteration 52


 Herman Melville's first novel, "Moby-Dick," was published in 1898 . The novel is set in New York . The voyages of the Dutch and English to the Northern Ocean, in order to discover a passage through it, failed .




Iteration 53


 Herman Melville's first novel, "Moby-Dick," was published in 1898 . The novel is set in New York . The voyages of the Dutch and English to the Northern Ocean, in order to discover a passage through it, failed .




Iteration 54


 Herman Melville's first novel, "Moby-Dick," was published in 1898 . The novel is set in New York . The voyages of the Dutch and English to the Northern Ocean, in order to discover a passage through it, failed .




Iteration 55


 Herman Melville's first novel, "Moby-Dick," was published in 1898 . The novel is set in New York . The voyages of the Dutch and English to the Northern Ocean, in order to discover a passage through it, failed .




Iteration 56


 Herman Melville's first novel, "Moby-Dick," was published in 1898 . The novel is set in New York . The voyages of the Dutch and English to the Northern Ocean, in order to discover a passage through it, failed .




Iteration 57


 Herman Melville's first novel, "Moby-Dick," was published in 1898 . The novel is set in New York . The voyages of the Dutch and English to the Northern Ocean, in order to discover a passage through it, failed .




Iteration 58


 Herman Melville's first novel, "Moby-Dick," was published in 1898 . The novel is set in New York . The voyages of the Dutch and English to the Northern Ocean, in order to discover a passage through it, failed .




Iteration 59


 Herman Melville's first novel, "Moby-Dick," was published in 1898 . The novel is set in New York . The voyages of the Dutch and English to the Northern Ocean, in order to discover a passage through it, failed .




Iteration 60


 Herman Melville's first novel, "Moby-Dick," was published in 1898 . The novel is set in New York . The voyages of the Dutch and English to the Northern Ocean, in order to discover a passage through it, failed .




Iteration 61


 Herman Melville's first novel, "Moby-Dick," was published in 1898 . The novel is set in New York . The voyages of the Dutch and English to the Northern Ocean, in order to discover a passage through it, failed .




Iteration 62


 Herman Melville's first novel, "Moby-Dick," was published in 1898 . The novel is set in New York . The voyages of the Dutch and English to the Northern Ocean, in order to discover a passage through it, failed .




Iteration 63


 Herman Melville's first novel, "Moby-Dick," was published in 1898 . The novel is set in New York . The voyages of the Dutch and English to the Northern Ocean, in order to discover a passage through it, failed .




Iteration 64


 Herman Melville's first novel, "Moby-Dick," was published in 1898 . The novel is set in New York . The voyages of the Dutch and English to the Northern Ocean, in order to discover a passage through it, failed .




Iteration 65


 Herman Melville's first novel, "Moby-Dick," was published in 1898 . The novel is set in New York . The voyages of the Dutch and English to the Northern Ocean, in order to discover a passage through it, failed .




Iteration 66


 Herman Melville's first novel, "Moby-Dick," was published in 1898 . The novel is set in New York . The voyages of the Dutch and English to the Northern Ocean, in order to discover a passage through it, failed .




Iteration 67


 Herman Melville's first novel, "Moby-Dick," was published in 1898 . The novel is set in New York . The voyages of the Dutch and English to the Northern Ocean, in order to discover a passage through it, failed .




Iteration 68


 Herman Melville's first novel, "Moby-Dick," was published in 1898 . The novel is set in New York . The voyages of the Dutch and English to the Northern Ocean, in order to discover a passage through it, failed .




Iteration 69


 Herman Melville's first novel, "Moby-Dick," was published in 1898 . The novel is set in New York . The voyages of the Dutch and English to the Northern Ocean, in order to discover a passage through it, failed .




Iteration 70


 Herman Melville's first novel, "Moby-Dick," was published in 1898 . The novel is set in New York . The voyages of the Dutch and English to the Northern Ocean, in order to discover a passage through it, failed .




Iteration 71


 Herman Melville's first novel, "Moby-Dick," was published in 1898 . The novel is set in New York . The voyages of the Dutch and English to the Northern Ocean, in order to discover a passage through it, failed .




Iteration 72


 Herman Melville's first novel, "Moby-Dick," was published in 1898 . The novel is set in New York . The voyages of the Dutch and English to the Northern Ocean, in order to discover a passage through it, failed .




Iteration 73

