



Iteration 0


 The Gospel in Brief is in the public domain worldwide because the author died 100 years ago . The longest-living author of this work died in 1939 . This work is a translation and has a separate copyright status to the applicable copyright protections of the original content .

 The division of the Gospel into twelve chapters came about of itself from the sense of the teaching . "True life is life in the present, common to all men and manifesting itself in love," says Jesus .

 In the full exposition, in the third part, everything in the Gospels is set down without any errors . In the larger work every deviation from the ordinary version, as well as every inserted comment and every omission, is explained and justified .

 Many passages in the canonical Gospels just as poor as in the rejected apocryphal ones . It is the teaching of Christ which may be sacred, but certainly not any definite number of verses and syllables .

 "I regard Christianity neither as an inclusive divine revelation nor as an historical phenomenon, but as a teaching which gives us the meaning of life" "I began to study the Christianity which I saw applied in life and to compare that applied Christianity with its source"

 "I did not know the light and had thought there was no light of truth to be found in life," he writes . "I began to look for its source and found it in the Gospels, despite the false Church interpretations"

 According to this false interpretation Christ's teaching is only one link in a chain of revelations . These false interpreters call Jesus God; but the fact that they recognize him as God does not make them attribute more importance to his words and teaching than the words of the Pentateuch .

 Mahomet is believed to have been the last of the prophets . The Mohammedan religion attributes its doctrines to Mahomet .

 The teaching of Christ is not separated on the one side from an artificial and quite unjustifiable amalgamation with the Old Testament . Only that faith can be called Christian which recognizes the revelation of Christ .

 Renan and Renan are among the most popular interpreters of Jesus' teachings . They try to understand the meaning of his appearance and the spread of his teaching .

 The essential thing is to know in all its purity what constituted that teaching which was so precious to men that they have acknowledged and still acknowledge its preacher to have been God . Christ cannot be held responsible for the monstrous tradition that has been interwoven with his teaching .

 "Let such readers remember that there is nothing for them to prove, that they have long ago said what they had to say," he says . "Even if they could prove what they wish to, they would only prove what is proved by all the hundreds of opposing Churches," he adds .

 Announcement of welfare by Jesus Christ the Son of God . Those who believed that life lies in the xiii. understanding became no longer sons of the flesh, but sons of understanding .

 When Jesus was twelve years old Mary went once with Joseph for the holiday at Jerusalem and took the boy with her . The boy grew and matured and was intelligent beyond his years . After this Jesus lived with his mother and obeyed her in everything .

 Jesus remained in the desert forty days and forty nights without food or drink . Jesus said to himself: I can disregard the flesh, but I may not throw it off . Jesus seemed to see all the kingdoms of the earth and all the peoples .

 Two pupils left their former teacher and went after Jesus . They said: Teacher, we wish to be with you and to know your teaching . They went with him and stayed with him till ten o'clock .

 The Orthodox church-elder was angry with Jesus, and said: 'There are six days in the week on which to work' According to the teaching of the Orthodox, God had given Moses a law that everyone should observe Saturday and do nothing that day .

 Some Orthodox professors of the law came to Jesus from Jerusalem . They saw that his pupils, and Jesus himself, ate bread without having washed their hands . So by the Church tradition you break the law of God .

 Isaiah said to you: 'The house of God is not the Temple in Jerusalem, but the whole world of God's people' Jesus said he would destroy the temple and build a new one in three days .

 Jesus said to her: If you knew me and knew what I teach you would not say that, but would give me to drink . Jesus had no need that anyone should give witness of man, for he knew that the spirit is in man .

 If he were really a prophet he would know what sort of a woman it is that is washing his feet: she is a wrong-doer . The Father, loving his son, has entrusted everything to him .

 To unite my teaching with the old is like tearing a piece from a new garment and sewing it onto an old one . New wine must be put into new wine-skins and then they will both be preserved .

 "Orthodox teachers of the law went to see John too, but they did not understand what he was talking about," he said . "They are like children in the street who chatter to one another and wonder that no one listens to them," he added .

 Nicodemus asked: How can a man, born of the flesh and grown up, return to his mother's womb and be conceived afresh? Jesus answered: "If man is conceived from heaven there must be something heavenly in him . Not for man's destruction, but for their good, did God implant in man this son of his

 The Kingdom of God will come for all men at a certain time and in a certain place . Only those exist to him who have preserved within them what he gave them . For the spirit there is neither death nor evil for the flesh .

 The farmer is the spirit, the Father; the field is the world; the good seed are the sons of the Kingdom of God . When the harvest comes I will tell the reapers to gather the darnel and burn it, but the wheat I will store in the barn .

 Jesus said: "That which is sown among wormwood is he who understands the meaning of the kingdom, but worldly cares" He said: Blessed are the poor and the homeless for they live in the will of the Father .

 Everyone who grows angry with his brother-man deserves judgment . Know that God requires neither sacrifice nor prayer, but only peace, concord, and love .

 "Do not think that love of a woman is good, do not desire women, but live with her with whom you have become united" Do not fight evil by evil, but fight evil with evil"

 Those who judge and punish are like blind men leading the blind, he says . To entrust one's love of justice to men's courts is like throwing precious pearls to swine . Those who condemn others to violent treatment, wounds, mutilation or death, wish to correct them .

 If you wish to pray, do not do it as the hypocrites do . They do it for men's praise, and from men receive what they aim at . If you suffer want, go about with a cheerful face that men may not see, but that your Father may see and give you what you need .

 Jesus: "There is only one entry to life—a strait and narrow one" "The flowers of the field do no work and do not spin, but they are adorned as Solomon in all his luxury never was"

 The teaching of Jesus was quite different from that of the Orthodox professors of the law . They taught a law that had to be obeyed, but Jesus taught that all men are free .

 An old man told Jesus that he had been ill for thirty-eight years and was waiting to get into the pool first after the water bubbled . Jesus said to him: Arouse yourself, take up your bedding and go. and walked away .

 "I teach you in the name of the common Father of all men, and you do not accept my teaching" "The Father has not condemned men to death, but has given them power to die or live at will"

 Jesus spoke a parable, and said that men should not think that the kingdom of heaven is visible . He said it consists in fulfilment of the Father's will and that that fulfilment depends on each man's efforts .

 The return of the master and his call for an account is the destruction of the bodily life and the decision of the people's fate . "Those who don't acknowledge the master's authority do not exist for him: he drives them forth"

 The true heavenly bread is the spirit of the son of man, Jesus said . He who follows him will not hunger, and he who believes in my teaching will never know thirst .

 Jesus chose seventy men from among those near him, and sent them to places he himself wished to go to . Jesus said: Many men do not know the blessing of real life . And therefore our bodies are truly food for the real .

 The learned Orthodox gathered at Jerusalem and went to Jesus who was in a village near by . They said that he was possessed of a devil, and that if men lived by his commandments there would be still more evil in the world than now . Jesus called them to him and said: You say that I drive out evil by evil. But no power

 If men were not sons of one spirit it would not be possible to overcome evil . Abuse me as much as you like, but do not decry the commandments of life I have disclosed to you . Man must serve the spirit of life and goodness in all men, and not in himself alone .

 Jesus said to Martha: Martha, Martha! You busy yourself and are anxious about many things, but only one thing is needful . He said: Beware of riches, for your life does not depend on possessing more than others .

 Jesus said to them: You tell me that Pilate slew the Galileans . Were those Galileans any worse than others, that this happened to them? We are all such, and we also shall all perish unless we find salvation from death .

 Every man who builds a house first reckons how much it will cost, how much he has, and whether he can finish it . So also he who wishes to live the life of the flesh should first consider how he can finished what he is engaged on .

 The Orthodox heard this, and as they loved wealth they ridiculed it . We should give away the transitory and false riches of this life in order to obtain the life of the spirit . God does not look at the exterior, but at the heart .

 Abraham said: Why should I send Lazarus into the fire to you? The rich man said: Still, it would be better if someone were to rise from the dead and go to them, they would then bethink themselves . Jesus said: If you wish to have life, fulfil the commandments .

 Jesus said: 'A camel can pass through the eye of a needle sooner than he who trusts in riches fulfil the will of the Father' Zacchaeus was saying to Jesus: See, Master, what I will do: I will give half my property to the poor .

 Jesus was saying to his pupils that his death was near, and a woman heard this and was sorry for him, and to show him her love poured oil on his head . She forgot everything, and broke her jar and anointed both his head and his feet . Judas, who afterwards betrayed Jesus, said: See how much she has done

 Jesus said: You have a special time and place in which to serve God, but for me there is none . I work for God everywhere and always . I show them that their service of God is wrong and that is why they hate me .

 Many believed his teaching and said: What he says is true, and is of God . Others did not understand him, seeking in prophecies for proof that he was sent from God . Many disputed with him but no one was able to controvert him .

 To know truth is to be to be a son and not a slave, says Jesus . Jesus said: If you err, you will be slaves and will die . If you are in the truth, you are free sons and will live .

 Jesus said: 'I am from the Father of goodness, God: but you are from the father of evil, the devil' He said: "You wish to kill me because I have told you what I have learnt from God"

 Jesus saw a man who had no understanding from the time of his birth . He explained to him that he was a son of God in the spirit . The ignorant man was conscious of light .

 Moses: My teaching is to men like the familiar voice of the shepherd to the sheep . The Orthodox were angry at this, and said: You are altogether sunk in delusions and yet you want to teach us . And they drove him away .

 Jesus: "No one will take my life from me, but I myself freely give it up for men to receive true life" The Jews were offended at this and took up stones to kill him .

 Simon Peter asked Jesus: What reward shall we receive for this? Jesus said: Everyone who has given up home, sisters, brothers, father, mother, wife, children, or lands, for my teaching, shall receive a hundredfold more .

 John and James asked Jesus to make them chiefs among the pupils . Other pupils grew angry with them for wanting to be equal to their teacher . To be more than another you must be the servant of all .

 The son said: Father, I am to blame before you, and am unworthy to be your son . But the father did not even listen, and said to the servants: Bring the best clothes and the best boots, quickly, and put them on him .

 Master planted a garden, cultivated it, and did everything to make it yield as much fruit as possible . He sent labourers into the garden to work there, pay him for it according to agreement, and gather the fruit . The labourers drove away the master's servant empty .

 Faith does not consist in believing something wonderful, but in understanding your position and where salvation lies . Jesus replied: You can readily believe that a great tree grows from a birch seed .

 Ten maidens went with lamps to meet a bridegroom . Five of them were wise and five were foolish . The foolish ones took lamps without extra oil, but the wise ones took a supply .

 We must not despise children. They are better than we, and their hearts are always with the Father . Not one child perishes by the Father's will. They perish only because men entice them and draw them away .

 Forgive him always, even if he offends you seven times and seven times asks for forgiveness . If a man has injured you do not forget that he is a son of the same Father and is your brother . If he has offended you go and appeal to his conscience face to face .

 Some Orthodox teachers once came to Jesus, and trying him, said: May a man put away his wife? He answered: From the very beginning man was created male and female . Therefore a man must not break the natural law of God and divide what is united .

 The temptation against the fifth commandment is for men to consider it their duty to do good to their fellow-countrymen only . The Orthodox once brought a woman to Jesus and said: See, this woman was taken in adultery .

 Materialists believed after the death of the body there is no other life . Materialists said: How can anybody rise from the dead? Jesus said: Either you purposely confuse things or you do not understand what the awakening to life is .

 The awakening from death is to live in the will of the Father . Beware of the self-styled 'Orthodox', for in them is the chief stumbling-block . Those who are dead from among men are alive to God .

 Self-appointed leaders hide the good and put forward evil in its stead . They outwardly honour the holy martyrs, but in fact they are just the people who torture and kill the saints . They are like painted tombs, which seem clean externally but are loathsome within .

 Six days before Passover Jesus said to his pupils: Let us go to Jerusalem . But the pupils said to him: Do not go. The chief priests have resolved to stone you to death . Jesus said: I cannot fear anything because I live in the light of understanding .

 In the morning Jesus went to Jerusalem where many people had come for the feast . When they recognized Jesus they surrounded him, tore branches from the trees and threw down their clothes on the road before him . Jesus rode on an ass's foal, and people ran before him and shouted: He is our true King .

 Exalt the son of man means to live by the light of understanding that is in you . From this time that which rules this world shall be destroyed . He who believes in my teaching believes not in me but in spirit which gave life to the world .

 Peter protested and said: Why should you wash my feet? Jesus said to him: It seems strange to you that I should wash your feet .

 Jesus told his pupils that to-night he would be taken and they would all abandon him and scatter . Peter said he would never deny him, and all the other pupils said the same . Peter made a sign to him that he should ask Jesus who the betrayer was . And he did so . Jesus said: I will soak a bit of

 Peter asked Jesus: Where are you going? And Jesus said: You cannot come where I am going now, but later on you will go there too . The personal life is an illusion of the flesh, an evil .

 Jesus said: 'I shall die and worldly men will not see me but you will see me because my teaching lives and you will live by it' 'He who fulfils my teaching will feel the Father in him and my spirit will live in him'

 There is no greater love than to sacrifice one's life for others as I have done . You are my equals if you do what I have taught you, do not be surprised: it hates my teaching . If they have persecuted me, they will persecute you also .

 If I do not die the spirit of truth will not come to you, but if I die it will abide in you . That spirit will dwell in you, and it will be clear to you what is false, what is true, and how to make decision .

 Jesus said: Whatever ills may befall you in the world, fear nothing: my teaching will overcome the world . Then the pupils said to Jesus: Now we understand everything and have nothing more to ask .

 Judas appeared with a large throng carrying sticks and swords . Peter snatched a sword from a servant of the high priest and slashed the man's ear . Jesus rebuked him and said: You must not resist evil .

 Orthodox chief priests tried to accuse Jesus, but found no proof on which he could be condemned . Then they found two witnesses who said of him: 'I will destroy this temple of yours made with hands' But this evidence also was not enough to convict him .

 Pilate the governor came out to them and asked: Of what do you accuse this man? They said: He is an evil doer, so we have brought him to you . Pilate said to them: But if he does you harm, judge him yourselves .

 Pilate sent Jesus to Herod to be judged . Herod regarded Jesus as an empty fellow . Pilate began to question Jesus in the presence of the chief priests .

 Pilate ordered Jesus first to be scourged and mocked by the chief priests . Pilate called up Jesus and asked him: Who are you and where are you from? Pilate said to him: Do you not see that you are in my power and that I can crucify you or set you free?

 In his childhood Jesus spoke of God as his 'Father' There was in Judaea at that time a prophet named John preached the coming of God on earth .

 Keeping of the Sabbath involves a delusion, but good actions should always be done . Orthodox Jews worshipped an external God, whom they regarded as creator and ruler of the universe .

 The spirit is man's consciousness of his sonship to the Infinite Spirit . The true temple is the society of men united in love . Jesus said that external rules are harmful, and that the church tradition is itself an evil .

 The spirit alone gives life to men, and it depends on them to preserve it or lose it . For the spirit, evil does not exist . Evil is an illusion of life .

 To carry out the will of the Father which gives life and welfare to all men, five commandments must be obeyed . The first commandment is to do no ill to anyone so as not to arouse anger, for evil begets evil . The second commandment . is not to go after women and not to desert the wife with whom you

 The teaching of Jesus surprised and attracted the people by the fact that it recognized all men as free . One need not pray to God in any special place, but should serve Him by deeds of love . We should do good to men unceasingly and expect no reward .

 The true food of man is the spirit of the Father, and to carry out that will of the spirit one must surrender the body . Man lives only by the spirit . Those who love the life of the body will hate you .

 The Orthodox said to Jesus that his teaching, even if it overcame evil, was itself an evil . To this Jesus said: Evil cannot overcome evil. Evil can only be mastered by goodness .

 Death hangs over each of us . Sickness, murder, or accident may at any moment end our life . Most ruinous of all for the life of the spirit is the love of gain, of getting rich .

 A rich man is guilty in that he eats much and luxuriously, while at his door the poor are hungry . Property not shared with others is held in non-fulfilment of the Father's will . A man cannot serve property and God .

 Good cannot be measured; it is impossible to say who has done more or less . A widow who gives away her last farthing gives more than a rich man who gives thousands . A man's whole life must be passed in fulfilment of that will, says Jesus .

 He who fulfils in his soul the Father's will has eternal life . We are enslaved only by the error of taking the life of the body .

 Jesus said: He who believes my teaching awakens to eternal life and lives after death . As sheep follow the shepherd who gives them food, so men accept my teaching because it gives life to all .

 According to Jesus no one can be either higher or more important than another . All can fulfil the Father's will, but in doing so no one becomes superior . Belief must be given not to words but to deeds, says Jesus .

 Jesus: To believe and to act, it is necessary to understand that man can do nothing of himself . Life is given to man not that others may serve him, but that he should give his whole life to the service of others .

 To understand the teaching of Jesus one must understand the life of children and be like them . Children live in the Father's will, not infringing the five commandments . Yielding to temptation ruins men, and therefore everything should be sacrificed .

 To have life we must fulfil the Father's will. We ask forgiveness of Him for failing to fulfil His will. What then are we doing if we do not ourselves forgive others? We are doing to them what we dread for ourselves .

 Men are tempted to infringe the fourth commandment by thinking that they can reform others by themselves . To avoid falling into human illusions we must think not of the physical but the spiritual life . Those who are awake to the true life live in the Father's will for which there is neither .

 The Jews saw that the teaching of Jesus would destroy their State religion and their nationality, so they decided to kill him . His innocence and rectitude hindered them, but the high priest Caiaphas devised a pretext for killing him . The Orthodox can learn nothing from them but words, and the Father requires deeds .

 Jesus went to Jerusalem for the Passover . His pupils entreated him not to go, but he said: What the Orthodox wish to do to me, and all that any man may do, cannot alter the truth for me .

 Many unofficial folk believed Jesus, but the notables and official classes did not believe him . One of his twelve pupils, Judas Iscariot, came to them, and they bribed him to take their emissaries to Jesus when he should .

 Jesus said he fed him and given him drink and washed his feet . He said: To exalt the son of man is to be as kind as the Father to all men .

 Jesus told Peter: I am going where you cannot go. Peter said: A man cannot pledge himself to anything. My teaching is that man should live in the will of the Father and fulfil His will .

 "The world will hate you as it has hated me, but you must affirm the truth," he said . "Love is to sacrifice the bodily life for the sake of another: there is no other definition"

 Peter, who had just assured Jesus that he would rather die than renounce him, now when he saw Jesus being led to execution was afraid they would execute him too . Peter rushed to defend him and, drawing a knife, began to fight . Jesus stopped him and told him to give up the knife, saying that he who fights with a knife

 Pilate called Jesus before him, and asked: What is the meaning of this—are you King of the Jews? Pilate said: Do you really wish to know what my kingdom is? Jesus did not reply, but said: "I have concealed nothing and conceal nothing now"

 Pilate asked Jesus why do they call himself a king? Jesus replied: They say truly that I call myself a king, but my kingdom is not an earthly one, it is a heavenly one . Pilate said: You teach the truth, but nobody knows what truth is .

 This e-book comes from the online library Wikisource . It's possible that we made some errors during the transcription and proofreading . You are free to use our e-books for any purpose .




Iteration 1


 The Gospel in Brief is in the public domain worldwide because the author died 100 years ago . This work is a translation and has a separate copyright status to the applicable copyright protections of the original content .

 In the full exposition, in the third part, everything in the Gospels is set down without errors . In the larger work every deviation from the ordinary version, as well as every inserted comment and every omission is explained and justified .

 "I regard Christianity neither as an inclusive divine revelation nor an historical phenomenon, but as a teaching which gives us the meaning of life" "I did not know the light and had thought there was no light of truth to be found in life"

 According to this false interpretation Christ's teaching is only one link in a chain of revelations . These false interpreters call Jesus God; but the fact that they recognize him as God does not make them attribute more importance to his words and teaching than the Pentateuch .

 Renan and Renan are among the most popular interpreters of Jesus' teachings . They try to understand the meaning of his appearance and the spread of his teaching .

 Christ cannot be held responsible for the monstrous tradition that has been interwoven with his teaching . "Let such readers remember that there is nothing for them to prove, that they have long ago said what they had to say"

 Those who believed that life lies in the xiii. understanding became no longer sons of the flesh, but sons of understanding . The boy grew and matured and was intelligent beyond his years . After this Jesus lived with his mother and obeyed her in everything .

 Two pupils left their former teacher and went after Jesus . They said: Teacher, we wish to be with you and to know your teaching . They stayed with him till ten o'clock . Jesus remained in the desert forty days and forty nights without food or drink .

 Orthodox professors of the law came to Jesus from Jerusalem . They saw that his pupils, and Jesus himself, ate bread without having washed their hands . So by the Church tradition you break the law of God . According to the teaching of the Orthodox, God had given Moses a law that everyone should observe Saturday .

 Isaiah said to you: 'The house of God is not the Temple in Jerusalem, but the whole world of God's people' Jesus said he would destroy the temple and build a new one in three days .

 To unite my teaching with the old is like tearing a piece from a new garment and sewing it onto an old one . New wine must be put into new wine-skins and then they will both be preserved .

 Nicodemus asked: How can a man, born of the flesh and grown up, return to his mother's womb and be conceived afresh? Jesus answered: "If man is conceived from heaven there must be something heavenly in him . Not for man's destruction, but for their good, did God implant in man this son of his

 The Kingdom of God will come for all men at a certain time and in a certain place . Only those exist to him who have preserved within them what he gave them . For the spirit there is neither death nor evil for the flesh .

 Jesus said: "That which is sown among wormwood is he who understands the meaning of the kingdom, but worldly cares" He said: Blessed are the poor and the homeless for they live in the will of the Father .

 Those who judge and punish are like blind men leading the blind, he says . To entrust one's love of justice to men's courts is like throwing precious pearls to swine . Do not fight evil by evil, but fight evil with evil .

 Jesus: "There is only one entry to life—a strait and narrow one" "The flowers of the field do no work and do not spin, but are adorned as Solomon in all his luxury never was"

 The teaching of Jesus was quite different from that of the Orthodox professors of the law . They taught a law that had to be obeyed, but Jesus taught that all men are free .

 Jesus spoke a parable, and said that men should not think that the kingdom of heaven is visible . He said it consists in fulfilment of the Father's will and that that fulfilment depends on each man's efforts .

 The true heavenly bread is the spirit of the son of man, Jesus said . The return of the master and his call for an account is the destruction of the bodily life and the decision of the people's fate .

 Jesus chose seventy men from among those near him, and sent them to places he himself wished to go to . Jesus said: Many men do not know the blessing of real life . And therefore our bodies are truly food for the real .

 Jesus said to Martha: Martha, Martha! You busy yourself and are anxious about many things, but only one thing is needful . Man must serve the spirit of life and goodness in all men, not in himself alone .

 Jesus said to them: You tell me that Pilate slew the Galileans . Were those Galileans any worse than others, that this happened to them? We are all such, and we also shall all perish unless we find salvation from death .

 Abraham Abraham said: Why should I send Lazarus into the fire to you? The rich man said: Still, it would be better if someone were to rise from the dead and go to them, they would then bethink themselves . The Orthodox heard this, and as they loved wealth they ridiculed it . We should give away the transitory and false

 Zacchaeus said to Jesus: See, Master, what I will do: I will give half my property to the poor . Jesus said: 'A camel can pass through the eye of a needle sooner than he who trusts in riches fulfil the will of the Father'

 Jesus said: You have a special time and place in which to serve God, but for me there is none . I work for God everywhere and always. I show them that their service of God is wrong and that is why they hate me .

 Jesus said: 'I am from the Father of goodness, God: but you are from the father of evil, the devil' He said: "You wish to kill me because I have told you what I have learnt from God"

 Moses: My teaching is to men like the familiar voice of the shepherd to the sheep . Orthodox were angry at this, and said: You are altogether sunk in delusions and yet you want to teach us . And they drove him away .

 Simon Peter asked Jesus: What reward shall we receive for this? Jesus said: Everyone who has given up home, sisters, brothers, father, mother, wife, children, or lands for my teaching, shall receive a hundredfold more . The Jews were offended at this and took up stones to kill him .

 John and James asked Jesus to make them chiefs among the pupils . To be more than another you must be the servant of all .

 Faith does not consist in believing something wonderful, but in understanding your position and where salvation lies . Jesus replied: You can readily believe that a great tree grows from a birch seed .

 Ten maidens went with lamps to meet a bridegroom . Five were wise and five were foolish . The foolish ones took lamps without extra oil, but the wise ones took a supply .

 Some Orthodox teachers once came to Jesus, and trying him, said: May a man put away his wife? He answered: From the very beginning man was created male and female . Therefore a man must not break the natural law and divide what is united .
