



Iteration 0


Molloy is living in her mother's room and doesn't know how she got there, possibly in an ambulance or a vehicle.
She was helped by a man who gives her money and takes away pages every week.
The man who comes every week to take away pages and give money to the pages is the same one and he always gives the pages back with the previous week's pages, which are marked with signs that Molloy can't read.
Despite the money and the pages being taken away by the man every week, she doesn't work for money and has no money left.
Even though the man gives her the pages, she still doesn't sleep in her room and has her room to herself.
In her room, she has no idea how to work and doesn’t know how to do it, and she wants to say her good-byes and finish her life, but her family doesn't want her to.
A chambermaid who has taken the place of a little chambermaid and is trying to resemble her more and more, trying to mimic her more.
This chambermaid has a son who is nearly as old as herself and comes to see her every Sunday and some days only when he's

The narrator has a premonition of the end of a world and a future where all grows dim and sounds fade, leading to blindness.
The narrator believes that the head is responsible for this dimness and that it doesn't work any more.
She believes the head suggests that the world is about to end and that there will be one or two or three more instances of dimness before it stops working.
Two men, one small and one tall, have left a town and retraced their steps, one of them weary or remembering a duty.
They both wear greatcoats and are unmistakably alike, but they look alike no more than others do.
Both men went down into the same trough and met in the same

 SAMUEL BECKETT and the other person stopped, face to face, on a deserted road on an evening, and observed each other for a good fifteen paces before turning towards the sea which was far in the east, beyond the fields, and loomed high in the waning sky.
They exchanged a few words before each went on his way back towards the town.
SAMUEL has seen many places, including the plain, the sea, and selfsame hills that some call mountains, indigo in places in the evening light, with serried ranges, cloven with hidden valleys, and marked by signs that can be divined from sudden shifts of colour and signs for which there are no words or thoughts.
Samuel has seen these hills from afar before, but now he knows them better, and if he ever sees them from afar again, he will see them with other eyes.
He is old and has been solitary for many years due to a rumour rising at birth and even earlier due to being solitary due to that rumour.

A man was carrying a stout stick which he used as a weapon against dogs and marauders.
The man was innocent and had nothing to fear.
He was wearing a cocked hat and I remember being struck by it.
I was perched higher than the road’s highest point and flattened against a rock the same colour as myself, grey, which he probably saw.
A landmark is a place where a man would look for something after a long lapse of time, such as a lost thing or to look for lost things or to destroy something, not necessarily a landmark because a man's eyes would

A wayfarer, A or C, is returning to a town he had just left and is carrying an orange fleece and a pomeranian dog following him.
The gentleman is bare-headed, wears sand-12 SAMUEL BECKETT shoes, and smokes a cigar.
An orange pomerania dog is following the gentleman who is carrying a fleece.
Constipation is a sign of good health in pomeranians, indicating good health and good health.
Despite the presence of the dog, the gentleman carries a cigar instead of the fleece, indicating that he is a gentleman.
After the dog follows the gentleman's path, stopping, turning in slow circles, and giving up and starting all over again, indicating distress, it becomes obvious that the gentleman was carrying a cigar and not the dog.

The character MOLLOY 13 has lost his arms and is without arms.
MOLLY 13 has a smoking object in his hand and has the ability to turn away from things about to disappear and watch them disappear out of sight.
The character has a crutches and is lame, but he has the strength to chase after a mangy dog named ^nan.
 ^nan is a dog who feels sorry for MOLLY and feels disgusted by him.
^nan hears the character's cries and waits for him on the road and is scared of him, feeling sorry for him and disgusted.
MoLLY believes everything he is told and swallows everything he's told because he's disbelieved too much in his long life.
Despite his belief in stories, the character appreciates the stories he's been told and appreciates them greedily.


I believe in the laws of the mind, such as water rising in proportion and blackening margins, and that one would do better to obliterate texts than to fill them with blank and flat text.
I was once again alone and felt restored to myself, as if I had never left.
The role to restore silence is the 14 SAMUEL BBCKBTT role.
My hat is an old-fashioned town hat, fastened to the buttonhole of a buttonhole, always the same buttonhole at all seasons, and fastened by a string or clastic.
In my hat, the hand that holds the hat moves in an arc, to and fro, and the lapel of the greatcoat opens and closes.
Neither the hat nor the crutches

I believe that I was dwelling deep down, somewhere between the mud and the scum, on an eminence or top or on the slopes of a considerable eminence.
I have tried various types of sleep and have dabbled with every kind of sleep in my life without end.
C. is a character I know from my first impressions of him.
The man with the stick did not pass by again that night.
Not one of the noises I heard that night was of those heavy uncertain steps or of that club with which C. sometimes smote the earth until it quaked.
 C. might have gone back to the town by another way too far away for me to hear its sounds.
In my sleep, I do not hear anything of the moon

 SAMUEL BECKETT wakes up in a distant night, divided between the murmurs of his little world and the sounds of the distant night.
He has a craving for a fellow and has the ability to summon rags to cover his shame when he craves a fellow.
Samuel finds his bicycle, which he didn't know he had, in the same place he left it.
The bicycle is a chainless bicycle with a free-wheel and has a red horn instead of the bell fashionable in the olden days.
Despite being crippled, Samuel was able to ride the bicycle with one foot on the projecting front axle using his crutches.
SAMUEL has a strong desire to see his mother for urgent reasons.

The blowing of a rubber horn is among activities which gives me a mild pain in the balls.
I used to ride a bicycle and every hundred yards or so I stopped to rest my legs.
When I had to part from my bicycle, I took off the horn and kept it about me.
The horn is still with me and I often stop and blow it when I see a motor-car horn through the lowered window of a stationary car.
My mother never refused to see me and she had not seen anything for many a long day since she had seen nothing at all.
She and I are like old cronies, unrelated, with the same memories, the same rancours, and the same expectations.

Dan was my father’s name and Mag was my mother's name.
I took her for my mother and she took me for my father.
In the past, I saved a swallow and buried a ring and remembered the day I saved the swallow.
Even though I didn't always take part in the scenes Mag evoked, I would have known more or less what she was talking about even if I hadn't participated in them personally.
The letter g abolished the syllable Ma, which satisfied a deep and unacknowledged need to have a Ma, that is a mother, and to proclaim it audibly.
Mag knew me by my smell and was happy to smell me.
She jabbered away with a rattle of dentures and most of the time she didn't realize what she said due to being under the influence of ammonia due to her being drunk on ammonia.
Using a code, I communicated with Mag using four knocks, one of which meant yes, two no, three I don't know, four money, and five goodbye, and I stuck a banknote under her nose or in her mouth at the same time as I administered the four knocks.

The distance from one to four knocks is too great for MOLLOY, and by the time she comes to the fourth knock, the first two knocks have been erased from her memory.
MOLLY's mother tried to help MOLLY by replac- ing the four knocks of her index knuckle by one or more thumps of her fist, according to her needs, and she understood this method of putting money in her head.
Despite her mother's efforts, MOLLYL forgives her for having jostled her in the first months of her life and spoiled the only enjoyable period of her history.
She believes that her mother did all she could to help her, but if she never succeeded, it was because fate had earmarked her for less compassionate sewers.
If ever MOLL

Samuel Beckett touched a grey wizened pear, but she didn't seem to pleased it.
Samuel was disturbed by a terrible smell that she believes comes from the bowels of Araby, an odour associated with antiquity.
SAMUEL BECKETT feels as if she has been poisoned by the sun, which she believes may have weakened her and poisoned her while she was sleeping.
She found herself under a deep ditch during her journey and mentioned it to a police-man who asked her what she was doing there.
A cyclist who has a disability and uses crutches and a bicycle to get around, observing the rules requiring cyclists to dismount and cars and horse-drawn vehicles to slow down to a walk.
The roads into and out of a town are narrow and darkened by enormous vaults.
Despite using a bicycle and a crutch, SamUel BecketT has managed to get through the town using her bicycle and crutch.

The conversation started with meanderings about a violation of public order and public decency.
The character is disabled and relies on crutches for assistance.
She understands that there are not two laws, one for the healthy and another for the sick, and that there is only one law to which all must bow, rich and poor, young and old, happy and sad.
In the conversation, the character mentions that she carried only bits of newspaper to wipe herself when she has a stool, and she likes to be in a position to do so if she has to.
They were walking along side side streets, with the weather being fine and they were in a place where the sun was hot and the heat was scorching, but she didn't feel unhappy.
A man stopped her and told her to stop listening to a distant music.
He gave her a hard fist and she felt a man's hard fist through the coverings of her hat, indicating that she had been touched by his hard fist.
After being touched by the man, she felt as if she had given herself up to that golden moment, as if someone had been someone else, and wondered if there was someone among the people present who could put himself in her

Samuel BBCKETT is a plain-clothes, shirt-sleeves-dressed, wearing a straw hat, sitting in an arm-chair, with a thin flexible object protruding from his mouth.
Samuel was questioned by a police officer at the police station dressed in plain clothes, dressed in a tone which left a lot to be desired from the point of view of civility.
SAMUEL BBCKetT listened to his subordinate's report and interrogated me in a manner which left him feeling uncomfortable.
I am not used to being asked anything and I'm not accustomed to being questioned, which makes it difficult for me to answer blindly.
Despite living in fear all her life, I can cope with insults, abuse, and spits.
She has no papers, no occupation, and no domicile and is on her way to her mother, whose charity kept her from dying.
Her mother's address is by the shambles and cattle-markets, which she knows how to get to because she had heard from her mother's room, through the closed windows, the bellowing of the cattle and the towns around her indicating that she lived near the cattle- markets.

Molloy has a short, stiff leg and has been standing for a long time.
She has a great big Adam's apple and a big, Adam’s apple-shaped face.
Her name is MollOY and her mother's name is also Mollsoy.
Due to her short stiff leg, Molloy can only use two postures: vertical, drooping between her crutches, sleeping on her feet, and horizontal, down on the ground.
After learning that sitting is not for her MOLLOY 23 any more, she was taken to a guardroom where she was told to sit down and to remain standing, propped against the wall.
The room was dark and full of people, including malefactors, policemen, lawyers, priests, and journalists, with dark, dark forms crowding in a dark place.
In the

Samuel Beckett was given a mug full of green tea with saccharine and powdered milk, a thick slab of dry bread, and a mug containing a liquid and a cup of something to prevent him from swooning by a social worker.
The social worker gave Samuel a mug with a greyish concoction and a saucer containing green tea, saccharines, powdered milk and a thick, precariously lodged slab of bread.
Samuel was arrested in the late afternoon and was advised to behave better by the police.
He was released in the middle of the day after being told he could go.
A friend at court helped him at court and impressed the sergeant, but he had no papers and had no money to get them.
His bicycle was stolen from him, but the police didn't take it due to lack of money.

I used to be intelligent and quick, intelligent and intelligent, quick, and had the good-will of an over-anxious person.
I once rested in a deplorable position, with my feet resting on the earth, my arms resting on handlebars, and my head hanging over the handlebars and I was rocking and abandoned.
This was a disgraceful sight for those who need encouragement and encouragement.
My ability to improve has never ceased to grow, from my first steps until my last, executed.
The fault for my behavior lies with my superiors who corrected me only on points of detail and did not teach me the principles of good manners.
Since I have ceased to live, I remember the long confused emotion which was my life and judge it

 SAMUEL BECKETT has a past life where he thought he was merely existing and that passion had devoured him down to the rotting flesh.
He has always cried out, more or less piercingly and openly, and believes it is said to be good for people to cry out.
Samuel Beckett is currently in a barracks and has a bicycle and a pebble in his pocket.
The barracks is set on a hillside and the declining sun casts a shadow on it like being in China.
A policeman on guard at the barracks told Samuel Beckett to go away, but he refused and asked for pity.
SAMUEL Beckett sucked on the stone from his pocket, which was smooth from having been sucked by him and beaten by the man who had sucked it before.
In his past life, SAMUel Beckett had a sickness and was on the canal-bank when he remembered where he was going and spoke in the present tense when speaking of the past, which is the mythological present tense.

I was walking along a tow-path when I noticed a team of grey donkeys on the far bank and heard angry cries and dull blows.
A MOLLOY 27 was approaching a barge carrying a cargo of nails and timber on its way to a car-penter.
The boatman was a man with a long white beard, a pipe, and he spat into the water.
I had set out to see my mother at the beginning of this ending day, but I had forgotten the reasons for this journey.
It was a simple matter of magic, a matter of knowing what saint to implore, and a howl from the grass indicated the howl resolving all.

 SAMUEL BECKETT is in a ditch, sinking deeper and deeper under the rains.
He believes he will come back to a similar slough or a similar place where he will meet again the sergeant and his merry men.
Samuel Beckett has an impression that his mother thinks she is alive, which is his impression.
SAMUEL is trying to create a being, a place, and a situation, but he is unsure how to do it without hurting anyone's feelings.
Molloy and Samuel were on the canal-bank and Molloy was in the ditch at the time of the incident.
The character remembers a certain night where he was alone, with nothing but silence and the little lights of the little night and its little lights, which were faint at first and then flaming and extinguished, feeding on filth and martyrs.
In the morning, SamuEL finds a shepherd watching him sleep and a panting dog, less closely watched than his master, gnawing at his flesh, which he wonders if the shepherd was waiting for an order from his master to drag him out of the ditch.


MOLLOY identifies a shepherd and his dog who are walking ahead of her and are not leaving the path.
The shepherd and dog are not going to the town but to new pastures, suggesting they are on their way to a slaughter-house, which is common in the country and not confined to towns.
Despite being asked by MOLLOY about their intentions, the shepherd didn't reply to her question and instead spoke to his dog, who listened attentively and listened to him attentively.
On the second day, MOllOY heard a shepherd whistle and a dog bustling about a herd of sheep, which would have fallen into a canal if not for the shepherd's protection.
She is able to see the shepherd and the dog through a mist which she describes as a glittering dust and a mist that rises in her every day and veils the world from her and herself.

Samuel Beckett is a protagonist in a land of breeders where quadrupeds are everywhere and horses and goats are still present.
Samuel is trying to get to his mother, who lives in the Aegean, and has a strong desire to reach her without delay.
He believes that he has lost his sense of taste and humour early in his life due to his need for heat and light.
Molloy is depicted as a character with a certain angle and a habit of covering himself in newspaper during winter and not shedding it until April, when the earth wakes up.
The Times Literary Supplement is an important part of Samus's daily routine and provides him with a sense of toughness and impermeability.
Due to his frequent farts, Samus has a problem with gas escaping from his fundament on the

The character MOLLOY 31 is on a journey to find her mother.
She is unsure if the MOLLY 31 road is the right one as she has read accounts of other towns as beautiful as her native town, X.
X is the name of the only town in her memory that she knows.
The name X was given to her by a clue.
Despite knowing the name X, MOLLYL 31 is unable to remember the beginning of the name.
MOLLY31 has been living far away from words for a long time and her sense of identity is wrapped in a namelessness that is often hard to penetrate.

I know what the words know and the dead things.
I once had a plan to kill a dog, but it was aborted when my bicycle ran over a dog and I fell to the ground.
The dog was not out on the road but in on the pavement, docile and docile at its mistress's heels.
My plan to ask a passer-by for the name of my town was thwarted by an absurd mishap.
This resolution formed while riding along and was aborted due to a mishap caused by a bicycle running over the dog.
In my mind, the safety of the dog was being put at risk by the lady who ran over the

The character MOLLOY 33 was caught by a bloodthirsty mob of both sexes and all ages, who were preparing to tear him to pieces when a lady intervened.
The lady, a Mrs. Loy, accused MOLLY 33 of killing Teddy, a man whom she loved like her own child.
Teddy was an old, blind, deaf, crippled, crippled with rheumatism, and perpetually incontinent, spending his days indoors and outdoors, indoors and out of dtfors.
MOLLOY33 had fallen in defence of a country that had never benefited from his service.
A police constable, identified by the lady as a police sergeant, was involved in a conversation about a man who ran over her dog.
Despite the conversation, the police sergeant was removed from the conversation due to his under-the- influence of unknown reasons.

SAMUEL BECKETT is a character who frequently betrays his emotions and often does not fully understand what is being expressed.
Samuels has a strong emotional attachment to his mother, who has killed her dog, and he feels compelled to help her get rid of the dog because he feels morally obligated to do so.
His mother understood his actions and offered him certain points of view, including that he was morally obliged to help his mother and bury the dog, that she did not wish to prose-cute him for what he had done, and that she found him likeable despite his hideous appearance.
Despite his deep-seated need to communicate, Samuels avoids speaking as much as possible due to his desire to communicate with his mother.
He believes in a Divine analysis that leads to knowledge of himself and of his fellow-men, if he happens to have any.
In his Divine analysis, Samuel believes that he often says too much or too little, which is a terrible thing for a man with a passion for truth and often leads to penury in the long run.

Sophie poked a dog with a malacca, presumably a yellow mongrel or pedigree dog, who was fatally injured.
Lousse lived in a house where a dog named Samuel BECKETT was buried under a tree.
The dog was buried by Lousse's wife, who couldn't use a trowel or a spade to dig the hole, because she had a sick leg.
Due to her condition, Sophie preferred to have her leg amputated at the groin due to the risk of her rigid leg collapsing.

Loussc and the dog were buried without any box or wrapping, just with the dog's collar and lead.
The burial was made possible due to Loussc's fear of physical pain and festered wounds, which caused him to shake.
Despite his terror and pain, he has never festered due to these wounds.
He has longed to see these clowns removed from the old stand where they have been accused of false witness, for and against, in a lifelong charge against him.
They are decaying circus clowns who got in his way when he tried to walk, sit down, and ride his bicycle.

The scene takes place under a larch tree, which is the only tree I can identify with certainty.
The tree has sea-green needles that are silk and speckled with little red specks and ticks in his ears.
A dog, a Teddy, was also buried beneath the tree.
MOLLY 37 is a spectator and contributes her presence to the burial, as if it were her own burial.
She handed a spade and a hanghgan to the dog, indicating that she had made up her mind to bury the dog at home and had not asked the vet to call and destroy the dog.
MoLLY was expensive and provided me with food and drink, but I didn't much care for good things to eat and enjoyed getting drunk.
 MOLLY had a parrot, very pretty, all the most approved colours, and I understood him better than his mistress, Lousse.
Lousse tried to make the parrot a French sailor, but the bird said he belonged 38 SAMUEL BECKETT to a French and American sailor.

"Pretty Polly" is a character who has fallen asleep and woke up in a bed, in her skin, in a place where she believes they had carried their impertinence to the point of washing her.
She is in a room filled with pouffes and easy chairs, tables, footstools, tallboys, and occasional tables and chairs.
The door to the room is locked and barred and the window is barred.
Pretty Polly found her crutches against an easy chair and a chamber pot with a roll of toilet-paper in it in the room.
Her beard was missing and she was told she was to MOLLOY 39 to be sacrificed at sunrise.
 Pretty Polly was wearing a flimsy nightdress and felt perfumed, lavender, and perfumed.
Despite her perfumed scent, Pretty Polly insists she is not an enemy of the state.

My mother is far away from me, but I was a little closer to her the previous night.
If I was in the right town, my mother would have been present, but if I were in the wrong town, she would be absent.
There was a huge moon framed in the window, moving from left to right slower than the room or the room itself.
The moon was divided into three segments, the middle of which remained constant, while the right side gained what the left side lost.
I once took an interest in astronomy, geology, anthropology, and other disciplines connected with it, including psychiatry, and I liked anthropology because of its inexhaustible faculty of negation, its relentless definition of man, and its concept of man as a "higher being" in terms of what he is not.
My ideas on this subject were always horribly confused and my knowledge of men was scant and my understanding of

The place described is described as a place where you find yourself without knowing how to leave and where you can't leave at will.
The narrator describes the place as a world collapsing endlessly, a frozen world, with no light and no wind, no loads, and no loads at all.
A voice speaks of a world where all wilts and yields, the ground is unfit for loads and there is no light towards an end.
MOLLOY 41 has seen a world at an end and believes that the world's end brought it forth and began the beginning of its end. She believes she is at the end of her own suffering and withers as the living can't.
She hears a far whisper, a sound which has been silent long since.
Despite listening to the

The moon which sailed gallant and full past my window had appeared the previous night and I was considering seeing it again when a great fright came over me.
The moon was young and slender, possibly young-and-slim, with a young woman on her back, possibly with a shaving, and leading south.
In 42 SAMUEL BECKETT, the new moon had appeared before the previous one, leading to the conclusion that the moon has waited for the upcoming new moon before launching forth on unknown ways.
Samuel Beckett decided to go to his mother for help after seeing A and C and then decided to see his mother, which took more time than he thought.
During the time between the night on the mountain and the other night, there was a period of 14 full days or nearly 14 days.

The moon seen from Lousse's house was seen two nights before and was not on the eve of being full, suggesting that it was entering its first quarter.
The two moons seen from the house were so alike in outline that the nalced eye could not distinguish them.
I concluded that there were two moons, as far from the new as from the full moon, and that they were merely entering the first quarter of their respective phases.
As sleep stole over me again, I remembered that my nights were moonless and the moon foreign, so that I had never seen it drifting past the window.
In the conversation, MOLLY 43 is in a room with a perfect cube and a high window, described as a place where the sky and the earth take on false colours and there is an alien light which seems to have once been mine.
There is a burning chandelier in the room and the clothes in the

The character is an oriental, a vague oriental who wears white trousers, a white shirt, a yellow waistcoat, a 44 SAMUEL BECKETT chamois, brass buttons and sandals with brass buttons, a brass-strapped sandal strap, and a bicycle.
The character has a nightdress that is pink and transparent and adorned with ribands, frills, and lape, and she flicks them one by one with the tail of her nightdress.
In the conversation, the character and the valet had been talking about clothes and she had been saying words to this effect.
Due to his inability to do much due to a stiff leg, the Valet helped to restore the objects he had overturned and put them back into place, demonstrating that he has no grudge.

The world around MOLLY 45 seems to shift, as if it has an orbital velocity.
The door in the big frosted window has shifted slightly creating a panel of white wall within its frame.
There are natural causes to all these changes and nature has infinite resources.
Despite not being natural enough to appreciate the order of things and appreciate its niceties, MOLLOY 45 is used to seeing the sun rise in the south and not knowing where she was going, what she was leaving, or what was going with her.
Her hat was not among the clothes that the valet brought for her, so she asked for it.
A missing piece of lace to fasten the hat to the buttonhole of the hat was an old piece

The missing knife was a noble knife, a vegetable knife, so-called stainless, with a safety catch, highly dangerous and potentially dangerous.
The knife was taken from me at the police-station without my knowledge.
Samuel Beckett often throws away all he had about him in a burst of irritation and decided to declare loudly that the knife was missing, which resulted in him receiving a very fine vegetable knife that was stained but didn't take long to stain.
This knife was stained with rust and had a dangerous safety catch which led to dangerous cuts on Samuel Beckett's fingers when he got caught between the handle of an Irish horn and the blade of a genuine Irish horn.
Despite having the knife in his possession, SamuEL BECKETT intends to use it to draw up the list of his pos- sessions.
He has a tendency to focus more on what he has lost rather than what he could have gained and to engage in activities that he no longer understands.
Even though he doesn't understand what he's doing or why he does it, he continues engaging in it, despite no longer understanding what he is doing and doesn't stop to ask what principle he's observing, he finds doing fills him with strong emotion

Lousse was in the garden tending a grave and sowing grass in the evening.
MOLLO Y 47 saw Lousse through a window lit by a wild tawny light from the staircase.
Lousse gave food and drink to MOLLY Y 47 who was looking for his bicycle.
 MO LLO Y47 found his bicycle half buried in a soft bush and tried to get on it, but the wheels wouldn't turn, indicating that the bicycle had broken down.
Despite not being able to conceive and having never tried, MO L LO Y47 has no qualms about having a good time in the future.
If he had tried, he would have known no peace until he got what he has, which is enough for him.
Upon finding his bicycle in the bush, he threw it back in the

Lousse is suspected to have poisoned my beer with something intended to mollify me and Molloy.
Lousse made propositions to me, which I listened to absent-mindedly, as I had nothing else to do.
The propositions were made slowly and distinctly by Lousse, with her repeating each clause several times.
According to Lousse's proposition, if I lived in Lousse’s home and lived there as though it were my own, I would have plenty to eat, drink, and smoke, and my remaining days would glide away without care if I chose to be clean, to wear nice clones, to wash, and to be nice.
Samuel BECKT is not in the town where Lousse is currently located, but he has asked Samuel BECKETT to be near her, allowing her the right to contemplate her extraordinary body both at rest and in motion.
In the conversation, Lousse has a strong sense of smell, and the smell of spike-lavender, a strongly scented flower, makes her think of Lousse.

She gathered lavender and made it into lavender-bags that she put in her cupboards to perfume her handkerchiefs, underclothing, and house-linen.
She spent a lot of time with me while I was stretched out on the grass, lying on my back, on my stomach, and on one side, now on the other.
I heard the chiming of the hours from the clocks and belfries.
There was no moon, nor any other light, and it was a night of listening to the faint soughing MOLLOY 49 and sighing stirring at night in little pleasure gardens.
At times, I forgot who I was, forgot to be, and was no longer that sealed jar to which

I was once in a jar which knew neither seasons nor gardens.
I was in a place where I could ask myself questions to keep myself from losing the thread of the dream.
The jar was threadbare and a bit threadbare, but I was glad to have it.
When I picked up his marble, V understood the words engraved themselves on my memory.
V has a defect of understanding that vibrates at a lower frequency or higher frequency than that of ratiocination, which he perceives as a defect due to repeated solicitations.
Despite V's understanding, the words I heard and heard distinctly were pure sounds, devoid of any meaning.
This is one of the reasons why conversation was painful to me and one reason why I was

Lousse is described as a person who has an ill-connected eye and sees the world in a formal and inordinately formal manner.
Lousse was not an aesthete or an artist and was not interested in seeking enlightenment.
He misjudged the distance separating him from the other world and often mis-judged it, often misjudging the distance and reaching out for things far beyond his reach and knocking against obstacles.
Despite having two eyes, Lousse's perception of the world has changed significantly since he lost his two eyes and his recol- lection of it has been long since that era of his life.
His senses of smell and taste were less fortunate, he was unable to distinguish between good and bad, and he rarely smelled or tasted the same thing twice.
In Lousse, he would have been an excellent husband, incapable of wearying of his wife and committing adultery only from absent.
After leaving the image of old Geulincx, who left him free on the black boat of Ulysses, he crawled towards the East, along the deck, and left Lousse after a few months or a year.
The weather in Lousse was warm the day he left, but in his

I have been under the weather for a long time and have been able to distinguish between different types of weathers.
In my head, there are several windows that open variously on the parading universe.
The house and garden are fixed by some unknown mechanism of com- pensation and I, when I stay still, am also fixed.
I have a brief recollection of an event where I helped neither in the house nor the garden and knew nothing of what was going on in the garden.
My bicycle had disappeared and I drifted like a dead leaf on springs, drifting slowly from place to place, as if I were in a cage out of time and out of space.
During my time in the rain-filled garden, I preferred the garden to the house, spending the greater part of the day and night in it, whether it was wet or fine, and I heard dull sounds, sharp sharp sharp ones and sharp ones, and often the roar of air being vigorously churned, which to me seemed like the sound of burning.

Lousse is described as a woman who lives in a house with a garden and a house, but only men, with the exception of Lousse herself.
The garden Lousse lives in is surrounded by a high wall, its top bristling with broken glass like fins, and is protected by a wicket-gate.
Lousse rarely shows herself to me, possibly out of tact and fearing to alarm me.
I prefer to behave in the presence of wishes, active and contemplative, and find the latter preferred due to my temperament.
A wicket gate in the garden gives free access to the road, which I can open and close without difficulty, both by day and by night, and I have seen it used by others, including others other than myself, for the purpose of

Samuel ElIkkett used to sleep in a large garden but now lives in a spacious house.
Samuel has been given slow poison by a woman who gave him food and drink, but he doesn't know what the poison was.
He accuses the woman of drugged his food and drinks with noxious and insipid powders and potions.
Despite being drugged, Samuel would have swallowed the poison with the same whole-heartedness even if he had not been drugged.
SAMUEL BECKETT devours with a voracity associated with heavy eaters, and he devoured with a method that follows from the idea of heavy eating.
 SAMUEL ELIZABETT consumed a small amount of food but devoured it with great deliberation and loathing, whereas a heavy eater would consume large amounts of

I have the ability to levitate in the air and collapse like a puppet when its strings are dropped, causing me to fall and lay long where I fell.
I am used to this phenomenon and have prepared accordingly, much like an epileptic doctor, laying down or wedging myself where he can't be dislodged.
Despite this ability, I did not always take precautions to prevent the fall.
The falls I suffered with Loussc were less surprising to me than the levitation, as they were more in keeping with me.
As a child, I was served a meal made of a single dish and one slab of bread with a low rim and coated with red lacquer.
For the little I ate, I

 SAMUEL BECKETT's health did not improve during his stay at Lousse and he attributed existing illnesses to existing plethoras and deficiencies.
Lousse is described as a woman of extraor-dimensional flatness, physically speaking, with a somewhat hairy face and deep, deep voice.
SAMUEL believes that there were no new or significant changes in his health, apart from those arising from the spread of existing illnesses.
During his stay with Lousse, Samuel experienced no new symptoms of a pathological nature and nothing similar to the sudden loss of half his half-poe.
Molloy's physical description of Lousse left him wondering if she was a man or at least an androgyne and if a woman could have stopped him as he swept towards his mother.

"I have rubbed up against a few men in my time, but I have never rubbed against a woman before."
Ruth is a woman named Edith, possibly named Ruth, who has a hole between her legs and a slit in her rectum.
The hole between Ruth's legs is described as having a slit, similar to a bunghole, and it is implied that Ruth put my so-called virile member in this slit.
I toiled and moiled until I either gave up trying or was begged by Ruth to stop.
In her presence, Ruth made me acquainted with love.
She is an eminently flat woman with short stiff steps, leaning on an ebony stick, a yellow nape, and she has voluminous tempestuous shifts and petticoats and undergar- ments whose names I forget.
We met in a rubbish dump, unlike any other, and yet they are all alike, rubbish dumps.
Despite seeing dogs and seeing dogs, I was surprised when Ruth confided to me that you could do things differently.

Samuel Beckett and Edith met in a rubbish dump in a dainty flat.
The flat was full of delicate furniture, the couch fell and caused chaos in the flat due to the fall of the couch.
During their encounter with Edith, Samuel Beckett cut his toe-nails and rubbed Edith's rump with winter cream during a short, intimate session.
After the session, Edith died in a warm tub, which was her custom before receiving Samuel.
Samuel found out that Edith was a woman when the tub overturned and the dirty water spilt on top of the lodger below, who gave the alarm.
He felt a sense of indifference and pain of losing a source of revenue after learning of Edith’s death.

The experience of finding a man was initially repressed and forgotten by those who didn't know about it.
Only myself knew about the experience and spoke about it, seeking to preserve it in her heart.
Despite having met Lousse and fre- quented her, Lousse seems to have had no effect on her.
I think of my mother as an old woman, widowed and withered, and of Ruth as another woman, both old and wizened.
Ruth used to speak of her defunct husband's inability to satisfy her cravings for sex.
Some days, like this evening, my memory confuses them and I think of

Samuel Beckett has left her dog's grave and has sown a garden with many many-coloured flowers and herbaceous plants, selected in such a way that when some went out, others lit up.
Samuel left behind her bicycle, which she suspected to be a vehicle of some malignant agency and possibly the cause of her recent misfortunes.
A small voice has advised Samuel Beckett to leave the garden and go back to the grave.
After hearing the voice, Samuel went with the wind and carried his crutches to the first shelter and stayed there until dawn despite knowing he would be stopped by the first policeman and asked what he was doing.
He did not stay in the shelter due to the presence of a man who drove him out due to him being a nightwatchman employed to watch over some kind of public works.
The character 60 SAMUEL BECKETT found himself on a flight of stairs in a mean lodging-house which had no door or door and was empty before dawn.

I have been in a town for a long time and have been there all the time.
The town was waking, doors were opening and shutting and the noise was deafening.
I found myself in a narrow alley between two high buildings with little windows on every floor facing each other.
This alley is a blind alley with two recesses opposite each other, littered with miscellaneous rubbish and excrements, including dog and MOLLO V 61 masters.
In this alley, I found a small alcove and chose to sit instead of lie down, using only the tips of her crutches as props.
A fine rain was falling and I took off my hat to give my skull the benefit of it, which was cracked and furrowed and on fire.
After taking off the hat, I felt better, but it landed against her side.
She crossed an alleyway into another chapel and settled herself in the same hypotenusal posture.

I have a vegetable knife in my pocket which I used to open my wrist, but the pain caused me to give up and put it back in the pocket.
I have always had a history of backsliding and believe that life is made up of this kind of "backsliding".
There is a fine rain falling with no wind, which seems to exclude all idea of wind.
My knees are enormous and my legs are as stiff as a life-sentence, yet I sometimes get up.
 SAMUEL BECKETT advised me to use the knife if necessary, whenever necessary, and I decided to go towards the least gloomy quarter of the heaven, which is the one where a vast cloud was shrouding the sky from the zenith to the skylines and rain was falling.
In this moment, I am no longer with Lousse and now I am in the heart of pre-established harmony, which I believe makes a sweet music.

The scene takes place in a narrow, narrow doorway where a young old man is alone and shivering in the rain.
The young man approaches the old man and stands beside him, hoping to emulate the example of one jvho who made a speech.
MOLLOY 63, the young man, decides to go out into the rain and away before making the speech, which was a controversial one and was liable to offend, offend at least to astonish.
A project conceived on the day of the encounter with Lousse and her dog was prevented from being carried out due to a previous encounter with her.
In the previous encounter, Lousse had stolen silver, massive teaspoons, and small objects which seemed to have some value, including a sawing-horse-like cross.

SamUEL BECKBTT considers a strange object that stands with equal stability and stability on any one of its four possible bases, a sawing-horse, and has no obvious purpose or purpose.
SAMUEL has fond memories of gazing upon the object affectionately and admiring it fondly, but has never been able to understand its purpose or function.
He believes that the object has a specific function and is always hidden from him.
Despite his inability to understand the purpose of the object, SamUEL believes that to know nothing is peace to the incurious seeker.
SamuEL left the shelter of the doorway and began levering himself forward using crutches, swinging slowly through the sullen air using a sense of rapture in the movement of cruts.
His mind was initially occupied with his mother and the desire to know if he was near her, but his mind became less because of the silver in his pockets and the ancient cares he holds, suggesting that the mind needs fresh cares to bring it back from its ancient cares and revert with renewed vigour to the old ones.

I lost interest in knowing what town I was in and decided to leave the town in order to find my mother and settle a long-standing issue.
I had been trying to settle this issue for a lifetime and felt that time was running out and it was per-haps too late to settle the issue with my mother.
In the country there is another justice, other judges, at first.
The sky was clearing prior to the winding in the other shroud, revealing a pale and dying sky and the sun, already down, with livid tongues of fire darting towards the zenith.
This phenomenon is characteristic of my region and the limits of the region are unknown to me, but I felt they were far away.
My region is a place where I have never escaped from.
After leaving the town, I described a good quarter of a circle through bad navi- gation and stopped to rest due to feeling harried and harried.

I have travelled in a vast region described by Molloy as vast and vast and have never left it.
I have left this vast region many times, thinking I was still within it, but I preferred to abide by a simple feeling and its voice that said "Molloy, your region has never left and you have never shall leave it."
According to this feeling, whenever I wander, within the distant 66 SAMUEL BECKETT limits, things will always be the same, day after day and vigrit after night.
My movements are due to a buckled wheel that carries me, resulting in jerks from fatigue to rest and inversely from movement.
The character depicted in the scene has no arms and is depicted as a mother.
In the scene, the character's hands are not hers and are depicted playing with the sheet, possibly in a love-play manner.
She has a couple who play with the sheets, one on top of the other, but the play doesn't last long and the hands are brought back towards her by her and she brings them towards her as if they were resting time.
Her character has feet with toes and without toes, and she has a foot at the foot of

The story takes place in a place where the shadows lengthen, the walls multiply, and you hug the walls, feeling like a good boy hiding from terror, looking neither right nor left, hiding but not provocatively, ready to come out, to smile, to listen, and to crawl, less rat-like than toad, less pestilent than a toad and less dangerous than a rat.
MOLLOY 67 is a character who rides a bicycle in the dark over the earth and along empty country roads.
She thought there was little likelihood of her being molested and that it would be more likely for her to molest the gods if they saw her.
Despite this, MOLLOY 66 decided to give the gods a chance by turning around to give them a chance.
The morning is a time for hiding and for order, beauty and justice for those who wake up, hale and hearty, and the time from 8 or 9 until noon is the dan- gerous time. Towards noon things quiet down and the most placable people go home, the most im- placable are sated, there have been a few survivors, and there are few tech- nicians who have done a good job.

"There is no mercy for the monster on the move or on the watch, lurking in his lair or in his sleep."
The monster can benefit from gentleness and gentleness, which deflect the barrel of a lethal weapon.
The hunter is weak at heart and senti- mental, overflowing with repressed treasures of gentility and passion.
Samuel Beckett prefers slavery to death, and he has never been able to conceive of being put to death to his satisfaction.
SAMUEL BECKETT has a tendency to slow down and wait for events to unfold.

I have always believed that my land ends at the coast and not at the sea.
I once went to the sea in an oarless skiff, paddling with an old bit of driftwood and wondered if I ever came back from that voyage.
While at the seaside, I took advantage of having a store of sucking-stones, pebbles, which I call stones, and distributed them equally between my four pockets to solve a problem.
In this scenario, I have a greatcoat and a pocket in which I can store stones, each containing four pockets containing four stones.
When I suck, I replace a stone from the right pocket of my greatcoat with one from the left pocket of the trousers, replacing it with another stone from that pocket, until there are only four stones in each pocket.
The four stones circulating in the pockets are not always the same four.
To ensure that I don't take the same stone each time, I rearrange the stones in the pocket by replacing them with the stone which was in my mouth after I had finished sucking.

The initial method SAMUEL BECKETT used to transfer the stones was to take the three remaining stones from the right jJocket of his greatcoat and replace them with the four remaining in the right pocket of his trousers.
Samuel was satisfied with this method of transferring the stones and began looking for something else.
Even with increasing the number of pockets, Samuel would always end up with the same four stones, always the same, within each group of four.
If SamuEL had found four different stones in his right pocket, he would have been able to suck at least eight of the sixteen stones, which would have increased his chances of enjoying his stones until their number was exhausted.

T has a pocket capacity to double the number of her pockets, but it is not possible to do so without the help of safety-pins.
T's good leg, good in the sense that it was not stiff, began to stiffen and she needed a prop under the ham and even under the whole length of the leg to support her.
The story takes place in a world where stones are revolving interminable martingales, crushing Handfuls of sand, and the sand runs through my fingers and falls back on the strand.
In the story, T is sitting on MOLLOY 71 shore, before the sea, when the sixteen stones spread out before her eyes.
She decides to sacrifice the principle of trim to increase her pocket capacity, which involves the distribution of the stones in four groups of four, one group in each pocket.
Despite the sacrifice of trim, the solution to her problem was solvable and the problem was literally in-solvable due to her refusal to consider any other

I have found a solution to a problem that I believe is sound and elegant.
The solution I found was to put six stones in the right pocket of my great-72 SAMUEL BECKETT coat, five in the left pocket of his trousers, and five in his trousers.
I was tired and contrived to come up with the first solution that was a solution.
In the game, the player sucks a stone from the right side pocket of a greatcoat and puts it in her left pocket, which is the one that is empty (of stones).
After sucking the stone, she transfers the six stones to the left side of her greatcoat.
Once the two pockets are empty, she replaces them with the stones in her right pockets and leaves the left one empty.

In the MOLLOY 73 series, I sucked five stones and transferred them to the left pocket of my greatcoat.
When the right pocket of the greatcoat was empty, I transferred the five remaining stones to the same redistribution as before.
In the redistribution, I replaced the five stones in the right pockets of my trousers with the five in the left pockets.
After the redistribution of the stones, I replace the six stones in my left pocket with the six in my trousers.
The first, seventh, twelfth, and twelfth respec- tively of the first cycle might not be the sixth, eleventh, and sixthteenth of the second cycle depending on the worst case scenario.
I preferred to make the best of the comparative peace

Samuel Beckett's solution to the puzzle is imperfect, but he is pleased at having found it all alone. 74 SAMUEL BECKETT considers his solution to be the only perfect solution and believes it would have been the sixteen pockets, sym- metrically disposed, each one with its stone. 75 Samuel Beckett believes that his solution would have freed him from anxiety within each cycle and for the sum of all the cycles, which he considers to go on forever.
Samuel finds the uneven distribution of the stones in the puzzle to be painful and inelegant.
There was a kind of equilibrium in the early stages of each cycle, after the third suck and before the fourth suck, but it did not last long and he felt the weight of these stones dragging him around, dragging him to one side or the other, as if he were being dragged by them.
The need to suck the stones was more than a principle, it was a bodily need for him, and he didn't give a fiddler's curse about being dragged to the right hand and the left, backwards and forwards by the stones.
Even if he sucked a different stone each time, all the stones tasted the same to him, for they

The character MOLLOY 75 is a black speck in a vast stretch of sand located in a wild part of the coast.
She has lost or thrown away all the stones but one, which she kept in one pocket and now in another pocket.
MOLLOY doesn't remember having been molested.
Some people, including old women and young ones, came to gather wood and stare at her, but they all knew what she was and kept their distance.
A young woman came towards MOLLY 75 and stopped from time to time to look back at her companions, who were huddled together like sheep, watching her recede and laughing.
The young woman didn't stop and didn't look away from MOLL

 SAMUEL BECKETT lives in a cave and feels reasonably secure from the elements and mankind.
Samuel believes that in caves and in vour boxes, there are prices to pay, which one willingly pays for a time, but which one can't go on paying forever.
SAMUEL has memories of his town being not strictly speaking on the sea, but inland due to a kind of swamp which exists between his town and the sea.
The city of Watt is situated in a swamp, a place where an incalculable number of human lives are annually engulfed by a vast amount of water, leading to a significant

My progress has been slow and pain- ful because of a short, stiff leg that is getting stiffer and shorter every day.
My other leg, which was supple previously, is also getting shorter but not getting shorter.
Both legs are of the same family, but they are of different families.
The old pain and the new pain are both caused by the same injury, MOLLO Y 77.
For the old pain, I was able to reduce its sufferings by using the former exclusively with the help of crutches, but the new one is of a different family and I haven't had time to adjust to it yet.
In the old leg, I had one bad and one more or less good injury, which I had been able to nurse and reduce to the maximum using only the former

I have a short and stiffened leg, one of which is shortening and the other one which is not.
The short leg is the worse of the two arJ and is in need of nursing.
I have managed to lengthen my short leg by chance on a road or by taking advantage of a not too deep ditch or breach of surface.
My short leg has not done any work for so long that it doesn't know how to go about it.
In the past, I was using crutches to walk due to a disability.
Due to the disequilibrium of the land, I made the best of the lie of the

I am in a place of deep darkness, in towering forests and giant fronds, where I hobble and listen, listen, fall, rise, listen and hobble, wondering if I will ever see the light again.
I consider hanging myself from a bough, with a liane, in order to end my story.
She has struggled with the thought of suicide for a long time, but she has always overcome the temptation to do so.
Her asthma attacks occur mostly at night, which have led to frequent thoughts of cutting her throat and turning purple.
During her asthma attacks, she wrapped her head in a coat to stifle the noise of choking and dis- guised it as a fit of coughing.
My progress was slowed down by the defection of her good leg and she was getting weaker and weaker due to this defect.

I have been at the seaside for a long time and have been experiencing increasing weakness.
My weakness has increased significantly, to the point where I can't believe it is the same hole.
The hole, referred to as the "arse-hole" by me, has become a symbol of those passed over in silence and a link between me and other excrement.
I believe the arse hole is the portal of our being and the celebrated 80 SAMUEL BECKETT mouth and find it to be an eyesore and a distinc- tion due to its centrality and its air of being linked to the other.
Almost everything comes from without and what comes from within is not welcomed warmly, and I have a tendency to overlook fundamentals and think I have nothing to learn.
During this time, my legs developed normally and I had noticed nothing abnormal in them, including a few corns, bunions, ingrowing nails, and tendency to gallop and gallop, but they suddenly became weak, turning their strength into the weakness of death.
This change in strength was caused by the desertion of my toes.

Mammy, who gave me a nice dose of her unconquerable genes, was the source of my boils.
My health is at the top of an impressive robustness, which I attribute to moral qualities, hygienic habits, fresh air, lack of sleep, solitude, persecution, and long silent screams.
I have a strong desire for MOLLO Y 81, Santa Maria is my word of honour, and I can't piss due to a bladder infection.
Mammy, who was also responsible for my boils, has given me a prepuce, sat verbum, oozes urine, and smells of kidney, which makes me fear uremia and fear that it will finish me off.
Despite the fear, I continue to work hard in her job and wait for the bell to say "one last effort, it's the end".
I am currently in the midst of a career spurt and I wait for this spurt for fear of being finished.

SAMUEL BECKETT expresses a sense of uncertainty about the future of her possessions.
She believes that the best presentiments are true and can be borne out, but believes that all false presentiments can be reduced to notions clear and distinct, distinct from all other notions.
SAMUSEL BERTETT is not given to presentiments but to sentiments sweet and simple, to episentiments rather.
Samusel has a feeling that the day will come for her to announce what is left of all she had, but she has to wait to be sure there is nothing more she can acquire, or lose, or throw away, or give away before she can do so.
Despite knowing what she was doing in advance, Samusel regained her ignorance when the time for her superhuman effort came and she no longer knew what to do.
Her progress is becoming more and more slow and painful due to innumerable so-called weak points, not solely due to her legs, and she has laid too much stress on her legs during her wanderings, to the detriment of the rest.
There were days when her legs were the best part of her, with the exception of the brain capable of forming a complex thought.

MoLLO Y 83 is a character who has to stop frequently to dislodge clots and has to lie down, prone, supine, and as much as possible with her feet higher than the head, in order to remove them.
MoLLY Y 83 walks in a dense forest, some days she advances only a few paces and others she walks in impenetrable darkness.
The forest is large and dense, with boughs twining together at a prodigious height, compared to her own height.
Bui often finds herself at a crossroads or crossroads in unexplored forests and describes a complete circle or more than one circle with a resemblance to a circle.
She dislikes gloom to lighten and prefers it to be dark, as indicated by her dislike of shadows and shadows

A stranger was born in a forest and has spent his whole life in the forest.
The stranger is sick with solitude and has a charcoal-burner.
He has been living in the same forest for a long time and was born there.
When the stranger asked for directions to the nearest town, he found the necessary words 84 SAMUEL BECKETT and accents to get out of the forest due to his extensive knowledge of it.
Upon encountering the stranger, the stranger held him back by the sleeve, but I freed a crutch and dealt him a good dint on the skull, which calmed him.
I started to examine him and gave him a few warm kicks in the ribs with my heels.
After examining him, I carefully chose the most favourable position, a few paces away from the body, with my back turned to it, and began to swing, backwards, forwards, feet pressed together, legs pressed together.
Due to the state of her legs, I found it difficult to press my feet and legs together and launched myself forward in an ever-widening arc, which resulted in a fall, knocking me down.

I have a preference for symmetry and have always preferred symmetry.
One of my heels sank in something soft, but I managed to get up, picked up my crutches, and applied method to the exercise.
If I had missed the ribs and landed in the kidney, I would have landed in a kidney but not hard enough to burst it.
People often assume that old, poor, crippled, and terrified people can’t stand up for themselves due to perceived weaknesses.
I believe that given favourable conditions, such as being a feeble and awk- MOLLOY 85 ward assailant, in one's own class and in a lonely place, one has a good chance to show what stuff you are made of.
In my region, forests are found in plains, mountains, sea, and towns and villages connected by highways and byways, and I have escaped from them more than once.
During my escape from the forest, I ate roots, berries, mulberry, a mushroom, and carobs, which I found in forests.
Even if I did not go in a straight line, I avoided a circle by going around a circle in order to avoid the forest.
My region is not all forest, it includes

SAMUEL BECKETT describes the forest as not as bad as one might imagine it to be and considers it not worse than other places in his region. 86 SAMU ELIZABETT is aware of the possibility of seeing the light tremble through the still boughs, the strange light of the plain, and the bronze-still bough-like light from the forest.
Samuel Beckett considers the forest to be neither worse nor better than the other places he has been in and considers being in the forest better for being there and being free to stay there.
Despite his physical condition, SAMUEL BecketT considers the state of his legs and his body to be not to be despised and that he was not forced to go to the forest due to his condition.
He felt compelled to go into the forest because he felt he lacked something and felt he would have committed a sin if he didn't, as if he had gone against an imperative.
The imperatives of Samuel Beckett have led him to places where he has always been inclined to submit to imperatives, even though these imperatives had led him away from places where all was no worse.
His imperatives were related to his relations with

The imperatives were explicit and detailed until they faltered and then went silent.
MOLLOY 87 noticed a new Latin command that led to the faltering imperatives.
The command to leave the forest without delay was not different from the ones MOLLOY was used to, but it had a different framing and was related to the same issue.
MoLLOY has been going to his mother for most of his life with the purpose of establishing their relations on a less precarious footing.
When he was with his mother, he often left her without doing anything and was on his way to her again, hoping to do better the next time.
Even when his mother appeared to give up and

The conversation takes place in a scenario where SAMUEL BECKETT is in possession of a consciousness and hears a voice saying "Molloy".
Beckett is compelled to attribute to others intelligible words or hear her own voice uttering to others.
In reality, Beckett did not say what she would have said if she had been able to express her consciousness.
She expresses her consciousness by saying "I said, etc." or "Don’t do it."
The conversation is set in a setting where Beckett is stuck and unable to move due to a lack of movement and has to rely on some kind person to carry her.
As the march gets shorter and shorter, the halts get more frequent and prolonged.
The sergeant suggests that Beckett might have expressed her feelings better if

It was winter and many trees had lost their leaves in the forest.
The leaves had turned black and spongy and sank into my crutches, making it difficult for me to get out.
I remember thinking about crawling due to the state of her legs, trunk, and head, but decided against it due to her physical condition.
A distant gong was the only sound I could hear during the night.
My heart doesn't beat and I rely on hydraulics for the squelch that an old pump makes.
Despite the lack of sound from the gong, I listened to the leaves before they fell and found them motionless and rigid, like brass, and blew through the cloth cloth in my pocket, but they didn't make any sound.
After the fall of the leaves, I used my horn, which I had taken off my bicycle, and plunged into the undergrowth using it like a grapnels, and pulled myself forward using them.

SAMUEL BECKETT uses a mode of loco-motion which involves crawling, crawling on his belly, and using hooks.
Samuel has a chronic arthritis in his wrists, which allows him to move with ease despite having to rest and rest.
In this mode of movement, SAMUEL can cover a distance of fifteen paces in a forest without killing himself.
He has even crawled on his back, plunging his crutches blindly behind him into thickets and thickets with black boughs for the sky to view.
SAMUel lost his hat due to a fit of temper and banged it down on his skull with such violence that he couldn't get it off again.
His hat had broken long ago and the lace had long since broken.
Due to the broken lace in his hat, Samuel was unable to meet any lady friends due to his inability to salute properly due to the damage caused by the damaged lace.
Despite the damage, Samuel was able to maintain a steady course, turning every three or four jerks to alter course and hope that he was going forward in a straight line towards his mother.
The forest ended in a ditch and Samuel saw the light,

Molloy is a character who lapsed down to the bottom of a ditch and fell into a ditch on a vast, rolling plain with a few towers and steeples of a town, MOLLOY 91.
The town is not familiar to Molloy, but in her region, all MOLLY 91 plains look alike and when you know one, you know them all.
She thought about going to her mother's door to ask if help was coming, but heard a voice telling her not to fret and that help would come.
Molly has a memory of birds, skylarks, corn-crakes, two travellers who had a club, sheep, and other scenes of his life.
 marble has a son who is sleeping and has trimmed his lamp, which will last until morning.
Marble hears an eagle-owl's battle-cry and is disturbed by it.
In this scene, marble is calm and calm, not disturbed by the battle cry.
A character named marble is depicted as having a son sleeping and trimming his lamp.

Jacques, also known as Moran, has a son named Jacques.
Jacques is unaware of the importance of his work and believes he is on the threshold of life, of real life.
His father, also named Jacques, is unable to sleep and will get up and go to his desk to work on his report.
 Jacques believes he will be forgotten and his report will be long.
Both Jacques and his son are aware of each other's names.
The conversation takes place on a Sunday during summer, which is Jacques's favorite day of the week.
During the weekdays, Jacques would have rested if he could afford it.
Seeing something done which he could have done better

A man named SAMUEL BECKETT visited Gaber's house on a Sunday to pay his respects.
Samuel Beckett was not a neighbor of Gaber and their business dealings were strictly of a business nature.
Beckett was surprised when he slammed the gate to his house and was confronted by a high mass of people.
Gaber's son was spying on them from behind a bush.
The son was about 13 or 14 years old and was big and strong for his age, but his intelligence seemed to be a little short of average.
Gaber had a profession of peeping and prying as part of her profession.
After Beckett returned with two glasses and a quart bottle of beer, Gaber ordered him to wash himself, straighten his clothes, and get ready to appear in public for the last mass.


Jacques was instructed by Gaber to read instructions from a notebook and leave his finger as a marker.
Jacques declined the job and suggested that the chief should call on another agent.
 Jacques believes that no one can do the job but him and has confidence in Gaber.
Gaber and Jacques are involved in a conversation about a man named Jacques, who has been made to get up in the middle of the night just as he was getting into position to make love to his wife by their employer.
Gaber believes that Jacques doesn't know what he says and doesn't understand what he does.
During the conversation, Jacques left with his son to go to a private communion offered by Father Ambrose during the course of the afternoon.


Samuels Beckett has a history of reprimanding her son, who is afraid of her.
Samus Beckett feels that she has never been chastened and has been spoiled and neglected, which has left her with bad habits ingrained beyond remedy.
The monologue 96 SAMUEL BECKETT suggests that Samuel Beckett's son might not have attended mass because he was afraid of disturbing or being reprimanded by his mother, Samuels.
Samantha Beckett hopes to spare her son from this fear by giving him a good clout from time to time and explains her reasons for doing so.
She is concerned about the possibility of her son not returning to mass if he hasn't attended and decides to seek the verger, Father Ambrose, for help.
Father Ambrose has a list of the faithful and keeps a register of them from his place beside the font.
According to Samus, the Verger ticked them off when it came to the absolution process and was unaware of these activities, which could have been the result of a super-vision or a work of supererogation by one of his sons.
As Samus was waiting for her son to come back and Gaber, whom

MOLLOY 97 was surprised by the light-mindedness of the chief's reaction to Gaber's report.
The chief's insistence on having me, me Moran, rather than anybody else, should have alerted MOLLOY to the serious nature of the affair.
MoLLOY was distracted by thoughts of his breed's infirmities and the singularities of those around him, and he was dreaming about his own experiences.
Martha is in a bad mood and hasn't seen Jacques, who usually comes for a glass of beer.
I decided to drink peppermints on my way to the presbytery and decided not to eat lunch.
Sam

Gaber is a punctual person who values punctuality and enjoys it.
Jacques, a neighbour, knew Gaber's habits and was aware of his Sunday habits.
Gaber went to church alone and asked Jacques questions about the march of the ceremony and his answers were plausible.
After church, Jacques told Gaber to wash his hands and sit down to his lunch and went back to the kitchen where he made an Irish stew.
The stew was served to Gaber and his concubine, who wept.
Gaber is a methodical person who seeks prolonged reflection before embarking on a mission to ensure the best way of setting out.
He takes the train, MOLLOY 99 motor-coach, foot, or bicycle, and sometimes leaves on foot or on his bicycle in the night.

In the present case, I was tackling the problem of transport with no preparation other than Gaber's report and a languid cognizance of this report.
I decided to leave on an autocycle despite the deteriorating weather and the possibility of rain.
The decision to leave was based on the "fatal pleasure principle" and I was unaware of the reasons against it.
My son burst into the room and asked if he could go out.
He suggested to go to the Elms, a place they call their little public park, but there was not an elm there.
SAMUEL BECKETT was told by my son to go over his botany.
Samuel Becket

The servant showed me to the presbytery where Father Ambrose was sleeping.
Father Ambrose offered me a cigar, which I accepted and put in a pocket between my fountain-pen and propel-pencil.
I asked Father Ambrose if he noticed my son Jacques during the last mass and he confirmed that Jacques and Father Ambrose had spoken to each other at the front row during the mass.
During the mass, Father Ambrose feared that Jacques might be ill and asked for a child to reassure him.
Jacques explained to Father Ambrose that Jacques was an untimely visitor, a visitor whom he could not shake off in time.
Upon meeting Father Ambrose, I asked MOLLOY 101 for a favour to observe me observing him observing each other.
MOLLY 101 suggested that a wink is as good as a nod and asked if I want communion

The priest, Father Ambrose, came back with a portable pyx and gave the sacrament to Samuel Beckett.
Samuel Beckett and his wife are concerned about their hens, particularly their grey hen who has not laid for a month and has been doing nothing but sitting in the dust from morning to night.
Mrs Clement, the chemist’s wife and herself a highly qualified chemist, has fallen from the top of a ladder and broken her neck in her laboratory, breaking her femur.
Mr. Beckett believes it is a joy to laugh from time to time, which he finds peculiar to man.
He believes that animals never laugh and that it takes them to find that funny.
 Samuel Becket has tried bicarbonate of soda to feed his hen

I had an interview with Father Ambrose, who proposed to have her swallow dessertspoonfuls of a dessert-like substance several times a day for a few months.
I declined Father Ambrose's proposal because the chemist was closed and I had forgotten about it.
The interview left me with a painful impression and I felt like one who has swallowed a pain-killer, feeling like a person who is first astonished and indignant after swallowing the substance.
Father Ambrose was still the same dear man, but I was surprised by his lack of nobility and perceived a lack of honor.
After the interview, I returned home in the pouring rain feeling heavy on my stomach and distressed.
Martha made a stew but the onions were missing from the pot, which disappointed me.
She watched me mockingly as I went up to my room and drew back the curtains and rummaged through a bin looking for something.
Her son entered her room without knocking and was masturbating before her cheval-glass without being invited.
At half-past four, her son came into her room and entered without knocking, despite being told by her to be there at four o'clock.
Despite his protests, I reminded him about the proprieties

My son has a special way of saying "papa" which he uses when he wants to hurt me.
My son and I are going on a journey this evening.
I gave him instructions to put on his school suit, the green one, but he insisted on wearing the blue one.
Samuel has an appointment with Mr 104 SAMUEL BECKETT Py for a tooth extraction scheduled for the following day.
Mr Py is the only dentist in the northern hemisphere with a history of treating people with bad teeth, and he believes that Sam will have bad teeth for the rest of his life due to his naturally

My son was examining the inside of his mouth with a small glass and prising away his upper lip with his finger.
It was raining heavily, but the sky was overcast and there was no rift in the sky.
My son had two albums of stamps, a big one for his collection properly speaking and a small one for duplicates.
I advised him to draw the curtains and asked him if he was waiting for his stamps.
Martha and I were having dinner at home when we decided to leave and I did not tell her about our departure.
Despite my advice, I made two mistakes in not informing her about the departure, leaving her in the dark and not enjoining my son to keep what I had told him to himself.
Due to self-doubt and self-loathing, I felt remorse for having begotten my son.
If I had been my son, I would have left him long ago.

Samuel Beckett is annoyed by the Eisner sisters who make too much music.
Hannah, the old cook, would call Hannah and they would whisper together through the railings.
Samuel has an aberdeen named Zulu who was affectionately called "Little Zulu" by people.
Zulu finds God distasteful and has a strange aversion to him.
SAMUEL Beckett doesn't like men and doesn't particularly like animals.
He had accepted a commission and had given his word, but decided to leave the city a little before midnight due to the state of the moon.

Gaber is a messenger who was entitled to a notebook due to his role as an agent.
Gaber was protected by a code incomprehensible to all but himself, which required him to submit his code to MOLLOY 107, the directorate, before being appointed as a messenger.
Despite his poor memory, Gaber was able to reflect on his messages and draw conclusions from them without losing any of his memories, including the text and gloss.
He believes that the messengers' memory was good enough to prevent them from undergoing a surgical operation to induce a degree of amnesia.
The messengers received a weekly wage of eight pounds, compared to agents' six pounds ten, and were paid a higher wage of six pounds per week.
Gaber spoke about his childhood, his family, and his childhood

Gaber and I are the only agents of our kind.
Gaber has never seen any other messenger other than Gaber and himself.
Each agent has their own particular messenger.
I expressed my desire for Gaber to give the job to someone else.
SAMUEL BECKETT wants it to be Gaber.
Samuel Beckett's last words were uttered by the chief to create an illusion of being the only agent in the group.
Martha installed a rocking chair in the kitchen where she benefited most from the kitchen.
The rocking chair was Martha's only possession and she would not have parted with it for an empire.

The conversation takes place in a room where a father and son are arguing about a rare and valuable stamp collection.
The father accuses his son of looking at his stamps and transferring duplicates from his collection of rare, valuable stamps to an album of duplicates, which he has a habit of gloating over daily.
Martha is allowed to keep her rocking-chair in the kitchen.
Gaber and I have a weekly supply of lager, half-a-dozen quart bottles, delivered every Saturday and I never touched them until the next day.
There were five bottles left in the pantry, corked and sealed, and one open bottle three-quarters empty.
I went to my son's room, where he was admiring his stamps, two albums, large and small, open before him, and shut them hastily.
My son has a new Timor, the five reis orange, which cost him a florin and was a bargain at the time, and he put it in the album, leaving both albums at home.


SAMUEL BECKETT is a character who has a duty to protect his son's albums, which he keeps in a safe until their return home. 110SAMU ELIRA is upset with her son's lack of respect and demands that he put the albums in the safe until they return. 110Samuel has a strong emotional attachment to the albums and feels a deep-seated desire to keep them away from him.
Samuel's son has lost his most precious stamps, which would have been an act of disobedience if he had put them in his pocket during their journey and gloated on their loss. 110 SAMUEL believes that the loss of the stamps would have led to his father's death.
Despite the potential negative consequences of losing the stamps, Samuel decides to take the entire album in order to impress a lesson on his son about the value of keeping his collection.
She has the ability to use magic words which she did not understand until her fifteenth year.
SAMUel feels that her son has been lacking in respect, but she does not want him to admit it.

Samuel Beckett is a character who experiences a sudden change in his life causing him to feel a sense of fear, confusion, and fear.
After dinner, Samuel decides to make the most of his time alone.
Samuel believes that lying down is the best place for him to penetrate the outer turmoil’s veil, discern his quarry, find peace in another's distress, and pass judgement on those who are plunged in it and those who have need of him to deliver.
He interprets his sudden change as a touch of neuralgia, which he interprets as a state of fear and fear and goes back to work.
Despite these feelings, Samuel trusts more serious and imputable less to pleasure than he trusts to his work, which is why he transferred this experience to the atmosphere of the world.
SAMUEL BECKETT has experienced a sudden pain and finds himself in a state

I was conducting an unprofitable examination which may have established a connection between me and a man named Molloy.
Molloy was not mentioned to me by anyone but myself.
I had no colleagues to whom I could have spoken about him.
Before meeting MollOY, I did not know about his existence prior to meeting him, and I believe I had invented him, as if he had been ready-made in my head.
There is a possibility that one meets with strangers who are not entire strangers, through their having played a part in certain cerebral reels.

Molloy has been mentioned by Gaber several times and is mentioned with equal intensity.
Gaber has mentioned Molloy multiple times and has done so with the same intensity, indicating a strong preference for a different ending to the story.
I have a preference for the ending of the story, which is different from the others, and I feel compelled to admit that I should have said Mollsoy and that in saying Mollose I was at fault.
Molls is depicted as a prisoner who has thrown himself at a specific target and sought refuge near the centre of a large, open space.
SAMUEL BECKETT is described as massive, hulking, of a dark colour, and of a massive frame.
Samuel moves slowly, like a bear, and appears to be constantly on the move, occasionally stopping and glancing furiously about him.
 SAMUEL has the ability to move like a jungle creature, moving slowly and swaying to and fro, swaying his head, and uttering incomprehensible words.


I am a solitary individual who sees her existence as a weakness, a weakness to be deplored but necessary if she wishes to remain that way.
I find it strange that a man like me, meticulous and calm in the main, would let himself be haunted and possessed by chimeras.
Molloy 115 is described as hirsute, craggy, and grimacing, and I assume he is a hunchback or haggy man with a haggard face.
My solitary existence is as important to me as the existence of MOLLOY 115, as important as my hens, my faith, or my dreams and hopes.
Despite her solitary existence, I clung to my existence with as little enthusiasm as I did to MOLLY 115.
She sees her life as a kind of inenarrable contraption, with little risk to her dreams and

Samuels BecketT was working for an anonymous cause for a cause which was not for Molloy, who was not important to him, but for old craftsmen whose race is extinct and the mould broken.
There was a strong resemblance between himself and a character named "Molloy T" and elements of "Gaber" described by Gaber.
The character SAMUEL BECKETT was preparing to face Gaber's report and get down to the official facts when the sound of a gong, struck with violence, filled the house at 9 o'clock.
A character named Martha served the soup and noticed that the soup had begun to coagulate. 116 Jacques was absent from the table and Martha asked him to come down at once.
Another character named Youdi is one of the five Molloys mentioned by Samuel Beckett, a character who is said to be dogged by his shadow and capable of changing his mind with great facility.

The soup before me had stopped steaming indicating that it had not been steamed for some time.
Martha made a joke which pleased her enormously and made her laugh so much that she began to hiccup.
Jacques refused to eat the soup and asked Martha to tell MOLLOY 117 what she thinks of the soup.
"The sequel" was a term Martha had explained to Jacques a few days before, explaining its meaning and application to him.
The soup was called "the sequel" by Martha because the rain had stopped and scarves of fine red sheen were mount- ing in the sky in the west.
Shepherd's pie is a dish Martha serves to her turkeys, which she considers better for rearing purposes.

Martha and her son are having a conversation about a bird.
The bird is a bird that can only be in-sulting when she is in flight.
Martha suggests to her son that he should eat something hot before he leaves and suggests that he has a stomach-ache.
Her son denies that he told Martha that they were leaving.
She has a daughter who has just made a pie for her inexperienced son.
My son is inexperienced and young and inexperienced.
I asked my son to fetch a minute-thermometer from the second right-hand drawer of my desk and asked him to take his temperature and bring it to me using a jocosely-worded sentence containing three or four imperatives.
In the interests of his education, I had a shepherd's pie, which I made with a spoon and probed with a fork, and called Martha's dog, who wouldn't touch it.

My desk has only six drawers and three drawers on each side of the space where I put my legs.
My son came back with a minute thermometer and handed it to me to check his temperature.
The son did not have time to wipe the temperature on the minute temperatureometer, which made me squint at the mercury.
In the winter, I would find my slippers warming in front of the fire and wonder if he had shat.
I gave him an enema, with salt water and a little wind, and let the enema soak in.
Father Ambrose's cigar and the porcelain, mirrors, and chromium in the bathroom instilled a sense of peace within me, but it wasn't a great peace

 SAMUEL BECKETT has a strained leg and acute pain in his knee.
Samuel has no food in his stomach and is feeling ill.
SAMUEL asks his father for iodine to help him with his leg pain.
The family is leaving in an hour or so.
Iridex was used to rub iodine into Samuel's knee, which is full of little loose bones.
His son asked for a report from his father and was told that he would get his report.
After the family left, Samuels asked his father to take him to bed and let him have a little sleep.
Martha watched the family leave and offered to bring him something nice and light in bed.


Martha asked MOLLOY 121 how long he expected to be away.
I was away from home and often took leave of Martha offhandedly, even during prolonged absences.
The milk in the fridge was getting cold and form- ing a revolting skin.
Martha made sandwiches and was about to go to bed when she noticed a knap- sack in the kitchen.
When she went up to tell my son to come down, she noticed the knap sack and asked for a report from the officer who was going out with the tray.
During his absence, MOLLY 121 had a cigar in his mouth, but it had fallen off and the ash from it fell off.
After his cigar fell off, he dissolved a sleeping-pow- der in the milk and left the tray with sandwiches for Martha.
He had a sudden cordiality towards Martha, shaking her hand and shaking it by the hand.

My son has been absent for a long time and I was concerned that he might have taken advantage of the opportunity to secure some of his favourite stamps.
I found 122 SAMUEL BECKETT from the tray a^c and took it to my son who was about to fall asleep.
Molloy has a voluble personality and is extremely voluble when he thinks I'm not present.
Despite Molloy's volubility, I was able to dampen his disposition by kissing him and waiting until the last drop of his food had disappeared before I tucked him in and kissed him, within a hair's breadth of kissing him.

I have a responsibility to provide for my son and feel a sense of satisfaction in knowing that if he dies, it would be none of my doing.
I feel that there is something in the house tying my hands.
My son likes sleeping with a night-light beside him.
Recently, my son could not sleep without his woolly bear to hug, and I felt it was wrong to let him have the night light beside him, so I decided to forbid it.
While in the garden, I found a cigar in my pocket the next day.
The cigar had gone unnoticed and I intended to put it in an ash-tray or waste-paper basket.
Upon finding the cigar in the pocket, I felt low and decided to confront the darkness in the

SAMUEL BECKETT discovered a faint reddish glow in the kitchen which could not have come from an oven, as the kitchen was equipped with a simple gas-stove, a gas oven, and aneal oven.
 SAMUEL has a habit of prowling in the night and peering through windows to see what is going on.
Samuel finds no one in the house and goes upstairs to Martha's room, where he finds a night-light with a red chimney and a small Virgin carved in wood hanging on the wall.
SAMU EL BECKT has recom- mended to his son's door and applied his ear to the keyhole to listen but heard nothing, so he went to his room to think.
Moran was preparing to go on an expedition without consulting a map or time-table, without planning his route or itinerary, and without considering the weather outlook.
The expedition was planned without consulting the outfit he would need, the time the outfit would take, the amount of money he would require, and the nature of the work to be done and the means to be employed.
He was dressed in an old pepper-and-salt shooting-suit with knee-

I chose to wear a heavy pair of black boots and a heavy massive-handled winter umbrella.
My straw boater, which was yellow and had lost its band, was yellowed by the rain and I considered wearing a black cloak, but I decided to wear the heavy umbrella due to its serviceable qualities.
I consider the cloak to be a serviceable garment, providing freedom of movement to the arms and concealing them, and I consider it to be an indispensable garment.
He was like a thousand other boys of his age and condition.
When a father is seen out with his young hopeful, his face grows longer and longer with every step, he is seen for being a widower and has a wife long since deceased.
The thought of being seen with his son made me angry, as if he had desired my failure.
If I had reflected with calm on the work I was required to do, and not been distracted by the presence of my son, I would have been more likely to benefit rather than to suffer.

 SAMUEL BECKETT is a person who usually leaves her house, her garden, her village, and her house with regret.
Samuel has a large bunch of keys to her house that she keeps in the right-hand pocket of her trousers and carries them with her wherever she goes.
SAMUEL has a son who is restless, plaintive, and whinny for food, whining for sleep, causing her to take morphine tablets from her night-table drawer.
A chain attached to SamUEL's braces prevents her from losing her braces.
The chain is four or five times longer than necessary and lies coiled on the bunch, in her pocket, and gives her a list to the right when she is tired or when she forgets to counteract the weight of the list by muscular effort.
Samantha's son, MOLLOY 127, is in the first stages of puberty and suffers from stomach trouble.
She woke him from his sleep and helped him out of bed, but he resisted and dug his nails into the mattress, breaking free from her hold.

I was disgusted by Martha's exhibition and had to use my umbrella to prevent anger.
I had bored two holes in the brim of my boater with a gimlet and secured the ends of an elastic to the elastic, allowing the umbrella to pass under my chin and under my jaws.
Despite the exertions of the umbrella, the boater stayed on my head.
After the exhibition, I went to the shed and hacked at an old chopping-block in the yard, splitting it with an axe.
Martha met me on the stairs and was visibly distressed.
In response to Martha's distress, I helped her son put on his knapsack and told him not to forget his raincoat.
It was nearly midnight and the night was fine, in my humble opinion.
My son and I walked through a shambles, through a wooded area with a narrow path and a narrow wicket-gate.
The path was too narrow for us to walk abreast, so I put my hand behind me and my son grasped it.

The scene takes place in a wooded area with a single chimney-stack and a serrated ridge.
The house is partly hidden by a little wood.
There are songbirds who knew and feared me.
I used to think I loved my trees, bushes, flower-beds, and tiny lawns and cut branches and flowers for their growth and happiness, but I grew no vegetables and lied about having turkeys and a few hens.
My grey hen was found on the ground, on a perch with the others, in a corner, at the mercy of the rats.
She had listened to a song in the evening and was entranced by the sound of a hen-house music.
Tomorrow,

Samuel Beckett and I have a son who often wanders off and leaves me alone in a strange place due to his father's election.
My son often takes a wrong turn or takes a simple corner to stray from the right road due to the election and goes on mechanically in a kind of dream.
The son and his father take their walks separately and regularly take the route that leads them from home to church and from church to home.
I toyed with the idea of attaching my son to me by means of a long rope, its two ends tied about our waists, but I'm afraid he might have undone his knots and escaped, leaving me alone.
SamuEL BECKETT suggests that we need a chain, not a soft, silent rope, but a chain which is not to be dreamt of and suggests a chain

The role of the keeper and sick-nurse is to keep an eye on her son during an expedition.
Her son chose to go to the left instead of the left, which angered her.
It was the summer holidays and her son was wearing a green school cap with initials and a boar’s head, or a deer's, in gold braid on the front, and his school cap was plumb on his blond skull.
He carried his raincoat instead of folding it in a ball and was holding it with both hands, on his belly, instead of carrying it folded over his arm or flung across his shoulder as suggested.
She asked him if he was capable of following her, but he didn't answer.
Midnight struck and she was gone from home, and she hoped that he might have forgotten his scout-knife, which has five or six indispensable blades, a cork-screw, a tin-opener, a punch, a fist, a screw-driver, a claw, and a gouge for removing MOLLOY 131 stones from hooves.

The character SAMUEL BECKETT is a character from the Schoolboys' Classics, a book about a character named Monte Cristo, who is depicted as a character with a soul similar to that of the character portrayed in the character "Monte Cristo".
SAMUEL has a knife in his pocket which he was about to use to cut off the throat of his father, who was in possession of the same knife he was holding in his hand.
Samuel's father was a little on the soft side, with a soft side for the deeds of vengeance, but he consoled himself with the thought that he would have to wait for his son's vengeance to be done.
The character Samuel's father had left, accompanied by his son, in accordance with instructions.

I am a servant who has been forced to conduct her duties in a tedious relation.
I have no intention of relating the various adventures which befell me and my son before they came to the Molloy country.
Despite this, I am willing to share these adventures if it gives satisfaction to my employer and his colleagues.
Even though I do not have the imagination to imagine the content of the work, I have more imagination than before.
If I submit to a scriven- ing which is not of my province, it is for reasons very different from those that might be supposed.
The voice that I follow is ambiguous and not always easy to follow, but I know what it means and follow it in the sense that I do what it tells me.
My obedience to the orders is not out of fear but out of habit, and I listen to a voice within me that exhorts me to continue to the end the faithful servant I have always been and fulfil my responsibility for a cause not mine.
When the voice stops, leaving me in doubt and darkness, I follow the voice no matter what it commands and wait for it to come back.
A voice has advised me to drink a little more and may be of

MoLLO Y 133 is concerned about her freedom and her future.
She is worried about losing her home, her garden, trees, lawns, birds, and the way of life in her country, which she has worked hard to build, to adorn, to perfect, and to keep.
MoLLY Y 133 fears losing the comfort and security of her house and garden, but she believes she is too old to start over and begin again.
Molly Y 133 has left her home in the Molloy country, a different country from her own.
Her penance for leaving her country is not to pass over things that are no longer unknown to her but fondly believed but which she fondly held at the time she set out.
Despite occasionally breaking the rule of not passing over details of little details, MoLLY X 133 observes the rule zealously and does not exaggerate the details of her journey.


 SAMUEL BECKETT has never crossed the Molloy country.
The region referred to as the Bally market-town is situated in the north and is described as a village-like surface area.
Bally and Ballyba are subdivisions of Bally.
Turdy is the hub of Turdyba and is located in the country outside Turdy.

Samuel Beckett and his son walked for several days by sequestered ways to avoid being seen on highways to reach Ballyba, a village located on a small, meagre, meandering land with no cultiva- tion due to the existence of a sacred grove or stretch of marsh.
Samuel found the butt of Father Ambrose’s cigar, which he had put in his pocket when changing his suit, after finding it in the ashtray, in the waste-paper basket, and in the pocket of his suit.
The cigar was found by Samuels after he changed his suit and lit it, but he threw it away after taking a few puffs.
On the third day of their journey, SamuEL showed his son how to use his pocket-compass and they walked ten miles a day and slept in the open with ten miles of good weather.
Despite being a scout, Samuel's son knew how to make a shelter out of branches and made a camp fire, but knew nothing about how to build a shelter.
Ballyba is a small village located in a poor land, consisting of a meadow, a few meadows, and poor pastures, where quitchweed

The story takes place in a field where a farmer approaches a group of people, including a father and son.
The father takes the son by the arm and leads him away in the direction of the farmer's field.
Despite the offer of a lift and welcome from the farmer, the group decides not to leave the field and turn their faces to the north.
MOLLO Y 137 is working under a shelter under the boughs of a tree in the woods trying to reconstruct Gaber's instructions to complete his statement.
Molloy, MOllo Y 137's son, has been found by Gaber and is presumed to have been killed.

I found Yerk on the third day of my work.
I was tasked with bringing a per- son to a certain place at a certain time for a delicate affair.
The per-son was not a woman and I have never had to deal with a woman.
Sammie invented a story about a woman who had been in love with him for six months and wanted to meet him in a secluded place.
This woman was a well-known actress.
 SAMUEL BECKETT never saw any of his patients again after he finished with them and lost interest in them once he had finished his work.

Molloy has the same address as Gaber and possesses the ability to respond to a telegram sent by Gaber.
I decided to find Molloy and devise a plan to deal with him because I had his address just as he had mine.
Gaber is capable of giving an explicit reply to my telegram, which I knew would help me remember what I was to do with him.
The plan was to pursue Mollsoy on foot, but an incident occurred while I was trying to fall asleep beside my son.
During this incident, I experienced a sensation similar to that of a blow similar to a horse's hoof and reacted in a similar manner to it, waiting anxiously for the pain to recur and sweating profusely.
Despite the initial pain, the pain recurred a few minutes later but was not as bad as the first time, suggesting that I was getting used to it.
This sensation recurred several times, each time less bad than the previous one, until it subsided and I was able to go to sleep more or less reassured.
In the past, I had experienced the same pain in my bath- room when giving my son his enema, but it had only attacked

 SAMUEL BECKETT woken me up early in the night.
I suspect I have a touch of neuralgia brought on by tramping and trudging and cold damp nights and promising myself to procure a packet of thermogene wool with a pretty demon on the outside.
At dawn, I woke up with a mild erection and was initially unable to bend my leg.
My son was puffing like a grampus and had no suspicion of what life could do to you.

The experience of paralysis has given me a new understanding of human psychology.
During paralysis, one can explore the horizontal like a child in its mother's lap, exploring it like never before and finding hidden delights.
When one is physically incapable of movement, the experience of exploring the horizontal becomes infinite and one can take refuge in the horizontal.
If one is able to stand up, or even sit up for a few seconds after paralysis, they have the advantage of a local and painless paralysis.
My son woke up feeling ill and told me he didn't feel well.
I asked my son about the location of the nearest village, Condom, which he named.
Condom is a small town on the Baise and I knew the village as I had been there and knew some acquaintances among its inhabitants.
 I advised my son to buy a bicycle to fit his needs and gave him five pounds in ten-shilling for preference.

I gave instructions to 142 SAMUEL BECKETT to buy a bicycle from Hole, a distance of about 15 miles away.
Samuel Beckett understood the instructions but did not look pleased.
SAMUEL BUYED a bicycle second-hand from a venture he had heard about from another person.
He gave four pounds ten and five pounds ten notes to me.
I counted the notes and gave them to Samuel Beckett.
When Samuel emptied his pockets, he pulled out a pocket lining and shook it, creating a cloud of dust, which I suspected he had stolen ten shillings and was trying to hide them.
Despite being ill, I didn't want Samuel to know how much money I had.

I was away on business and did not keep the most rigorous accounts when I was throwing money away.
I gave him notes worth 143 pounds ten shillings.
He counted the notes and found out that I had given him only four pounds ten instead of five pounds worth of notes.
The notes he counted were worth about 143 pounds.
When asked about the cost of a second-hand bicycle, he replied that he did not know how much a bicycle costs.
In the duet, I didn't tell him about a ball of tangled string with ten pounds possibly inside it.
Instead, I suggested that the ball of string could have

SamuEL BECKETT, who is nearly my size and nearly as tall as I am, was intended to buy a bicycle from Jacques Moran from Turdy.
Jacques Moran gave instructions to Samuel to buy the bicycle in Hole, which was the nearest locality, and advised SamuEL to go to the police-sergeant in Hole and give his name and say that it was Jacques Moran who had sent him to buy it.
The bicycle was intended for SAMUEL, who initially did not understand who it was for and was waiting under a tree-trunk shelter under the shadow of a tree.
Samuel was waiting for instructions to use the bicycle when he revealed that he doesn't feel well and left the shelter and went about twenty paces away.
A woman was sick of the sight of him and expressed that she is sick of him.
She tried to look light-hearted and hailed him, calling him a lamp, but he ignored her and went away.

My son was running away from me when I hurled a live bough in his direction.
My son reacted with fear and took to his heels, fearing I would run after him.
I have a terrifying running style, with my head flung back, teeth clenched, elbows bent to the full, and knees nearly hitting me in the face, and I often catch faster runners who stop and wait for me due to this style.
The intention was not to buy a lamp at the time, as the bicycle had taken its place in my son's life and duties and inno- cent games.
It was in anticipation of those happy days that I had thought of the lamp and cried out to my son to buy one.
When the time came for him to fit his bicycle with the best lamps, both front and rear, and bells and brakes that money could buy, I would help him to do it.
During the day, I ate several times and took advantage of being alone to masturbate, which I believe was due to the absence of my son.

I was walking when a great weariness seized hold of my leg and I had to stop due to a heaviness.
I took a little morphine and asked myself why I did not tell my son about my condition and why I had hidden it from him.
The condition caused me to question if I was secretly glad that this had happened to me, possibly to the point of not wanting to get better.
After stopping, I walked down to a stream and washed my face and hands at a stream.
Stretched out in the shelter of the shelter, I brooded on the undertaking in which I was embarked and tried to remember what I was to do with Molloy when she arrived.
A man who was standing a few paces off, standing motionless, with his back to me and leaning on a heavy coat and a stick that was massive and thicker at the bottom than at the top, was wearing a hat with an extraordinary shape and colour and a huge shock of dirty snow-white hair.
This man had a coldness and coldness in his stare and a

The character MOLLOY 147 has dirty, dirty, noble, dirty and hairy hair that swelled up on her skull.
The character has an accent that is that of a foreigner or one who has lost the habit of speech.
A man asked Molly 147 to give him a piece of bread and a tin of sardines.
She gave the bread to the man for his son who would probably be hungry when he came back.
When the man asked for fish, Molly 147 gave him bread for the son.
Molly 147 wishes she could have been in the middle of a desert, under the midday sun, to look after her son until he was only a dot on the edge of the horizon.
After her son didn't come, Molly

The fire was still warm from the fire and the embers were still warm.
 SAMUEL BECKETT's leg was no better but not worse, possibly due to a habit that was becoming a habit.
Samuel BecketT had listened to the 148 SAMU ELIZABETT knee test and submitted it to various tests.
He went into a copse to cut a stick from a suitable branch, but discovered that he didn't have a knife and searched for his son's knife, which was not among the things he had laid on the ground and he had not picked up.
After finding an umbrella in the copse, Samuel Beckett used it to cut himself a stick and practised walking with the umbrella.
The umbrella allowed Sam to practice walking with ease, despite having to stop every ten steps due to the defect in his bloodstream.
Once equipped with an umbrella, Sam was able to walk more quickly and could radiate from the shelter and gained a better view of the expanse from which his son might suddenly rise into view.
SAMUEL Becket

The first day has been spent by Molloy and his companions trying to find their way back to their shelter, which they are beginning to think of as their little house.
They are running out of their provisions of food and have only two tins of sardines, a handful of biscuits, and a few apples.
The companions are discussing what they want to do once they find him and the idea of ageing.
Molloy saw a globe swaying up slowly from the depths of the water, smooth and scarcely paler than its escorting ripples, with a face with holes for the eyes and mouth and other wounds.
I felt a sense of disaster and a resignation of being dispossessed of self due to my sense of distress and loss of self-preservation.
It was not in my nature to conduct calculations simultaneously, but to conduct them separately and turn about separately.

The missing instructions concerning Molloy triggered a memory of missing instructions that led to a change in the course of events.
The memory of the missing instructions led to her turning towards unknown unknowns.
A fortnight ago, she was planning how long she could survive on the provisions she had left, calculating calories and vitamins, and planning a series of menus asymp- 150 SAMUEL BECKETT totically approaching nutritional zero.
An incident occurred on the second day of her journey where she was hailed by a man.
She reacted violently when she heard the voice of a man but continued to busy herself with her fire, poking it with a branch she had torn from a tree for the purpose.
This branch was thick and full of sap and did not burn when she stuck it in the fire, which allowed a man to come up to her without her knowledge.

The intruder is described as MOLLOY 151, a small, thick-set man who wears a thick navy-blue suit (double-breasted), a pair of out-rageously wide black shoes with high toe-caps higher than the uppers, a dark muffler, and a narrow-brimmed dark blue felt hat with an artificial fly stuck in the band.
The intruder has a face that resembles the character's, with features like a moustache, ferrety eyes, a paraphimosis of the nose, a thin red mouth, and thin red lips.
She has a limp and is unable to walk due to a limp.
MOLLOY asked the character if she had seen an old man with a stick pass by and described him to the character, but the character refused to give him her card and asked him to call her son who might arrive at any moment.

SAMUEL BECKETT has not seen anyone and believes he has been alone for a long time. 152 SAMU ELIZABETT is in a place where he believes he can still see a hand coming towards him, a hand that is pallid and pallid, opening and closing as if self-propelled, and self-sufficiently self-opening and closing. 152Samuel believes he is on a night patrol and has an idea about what might be going on there. 152He finds Sammie stretched on the ground, his head in a pulp, and he finds him with a few scratches on his body. 152Sammie, who no longer resembles Sammie, dragged him into a shelter and noticed that Sammie's leg was bending normally and his suspenders were hanging loose.
Sammie was wearing suspenders that had come undone and his legs were on the stiff side, with some play in the hip joints, and his ankles were slightly stiff. 152SAMU ELIZABETt took her son's raincoat and laid down next to a fire, listening to owls and distant corncrakes and listening to distant birds.
She packed and shouldered two bags, took the raincoat,

The keys to MOLLO Y 153 were lost and scattered around the camp.
The keys had broken into three pieces, the chain, keys and the ring.
I managed to recover the keys by laying down flat on the ground among the keys and wiping each key on the grass before putting it in a pocket.
A number of keys were located some distance away from me by rolling over and over.
In the search for the keys, I found an ear which I threw into a copse and a hat which I thought was on my head.
One of the holes for the elastic of the hat had expanded to the edge of the rim and was no longer a hole, but a slit, but the elastic had been spared and the elastic was still in it.
After finding the ring, I jammed the

The land from where I was and the clouds in the sky suggest a painting by an old master.
I made myself comfortable by eating a whole tin of sardines and one apple, laying down flat on my son's coat, propping my elbows on the ground, placing my 154 SAMUEL BECKETT jaws between my hands, and resting my cheek on a cushion of two hands on ground.
The third day passed tranquilly, except for a dog sniffing about the remains of my fire and disappearing into a copse, and I mended my hat with a tin-opener, made a new hole beside the old one, and fastened elastic elastic elastic to the elastic elastic of the hat.
After mending the hat, I made a ring, twisting two pieces together, twisting the two pieces into a ring and making fast the long chain, and mended keys and made fast the keys.
During the third day, I asked myself a number of questions to kill time and tried to answer them.
Some of the questions I asked were related to what had happened to the blue felt hat, if they would suspect the old man with the stick, and if his chances of exonerating himself were slight.


The character has written with a firm and satisfied hand and a calmer mind, indicating a calm mind.
The character expects to be far away before these lines are read, in a place where no one will come to look for them.
She believes that Youdi would not let her son be punished for a fault committed in the execution of her duty.
On the third day, the character had eaten her last tin of sardines and a few biscuits, leaving her with only a few apples and few biscuits.
At about seven o'clock, her son arrived, the sun was low in the west and he was already between her and the camp.
SAMUEL BECKETT was pushing a bicycle that had dropped with a gesture indicating he was unable to bear it any more.
SamuEL was carrying a bicycle

The seller asked for four pounds five instead of the correct amount for the purchase of a bicycle.
The seller had a receipt for the bicycle but did not know what a receipt was.
My son had a puncture two miles from Hole and had to walk the rest of the way to have the bicycle repaired.
He spent ten shillings on a carrier.
After the repair, the bicycle became hard again due to air escaping between the valve and the con- nection.
I asked my son to hold the bicycle and give me the pump to fix the tyre.
Instead of eating the chocolate from the seller's pocket,

My son and I were riding a bicycle carrying bags, a raincoat, a carrier and string, and an umbrella.
My seat was higher than my son's and I felt a sharp pain in my shin and got tangled up in the back wheel of the bicycle.
Samuel Becket has a sick leg which makes it difficult for him to start off gently.
The character SAMUEL BECKETT and his son are on a bicycle ride, and Samusel Becket's son has a strong heart and his hand is far from his heart.
When the bicycle starts to turn and the wheels start to turn, SamuEL Becket follows closely behind his son's lead.
I was thinking of phlebotomy at the time and I was thinking about phle

The character has a character who is described as clumsy, stupid, slow, dirty, untruthful, deceitful, deceptive, prodigal, and unfilial.
MOLLOY 159 has a son who takes good care of her despite being clumsy, slow and dirty, and taking a lot of responsibility for her care.
Her son often complained of health issues, his stomach, his teeth, and he often looked worse and worse.
I gave him some morphine and patched up his bicycle after a bicycle accident.
My leg was no better but the skin on it had healed and I would not have made it to the destination without the help of my son.
They spent a long time getting to Ballyba and lost their way for weeks.
The character found a shepherd who was sitting on the ground stroking his dog and a flock of

The scene takes place with a shepherd, a sheep, a dog, and a flock of sheep.
The shepherd has a pipe in his mouth and is holding it to the ground.
A servant named Ballyba has promised to serve the shepherd faithfully and is willing to serve for a place to lie and a little bit of food.
Samuel Beckett's character has a dog and a sheep who seem to have lost interest in the conversation and are grazing on a grassy plain.
In the scene, the dog and the dog's eyes follow the movement of the pipe and the shepherd's hand following it.
SAMUEL BECKETT's character is depicted as a man with a pipe smoking blue smoke from it and gestures with the stem of his pipe at the ground, indicating that he wants food.

I was alone with my son when I watched a flock of sheep, a man, a woman, a dog, and a flock moving away.
I felt a sense of immense sigh when it was revealed that it was not I who was departing but the flock.
The shepherd stood aside to let the flock pass and counted them as they passed, not missing a single one.
After the flock passed, the shepherd went to his cottage and sat down at the table without taking off his hat.
That night, he had a violent scene with his son.
My MOLLOY 161 infallible technique brought him to a proper sense of his iniquities, but he left with a considerable sum of money due to him leaving with his knapsack and raincoat.

Samuel Beckett's son has been under her supervision and has been in charge of everything, including the shopping and money.
Samuel's son always has a significant amount of money in his pocket and always has more money than he needs.
SAMUEL BECKETT's pocket-book contained only fifteen shillings, which led to the conclusion that her son had gone through her pockets before he left and taken the money. 162 SAMU ELIZABETH's first gratitude was gratitude for her son leaving her a small sum of money to keep her going until help arrived. 162 Samuel Beckett was alone, with her bag, umbrella, and the remaining money in her pockets, in Ballyba, but she was found in a place far from Bally

The character MOLLY Y 163 harbored childish hopes that her son would have pity on her and come back to her, or that Molloy, whose country this was, would become a friend and like a father to her.
She has harbored hopes for her son, but she has not been able to reach out to him.
In the evening, she turned to the lights of Bally and watched them shine brighter and brighter and then go out together, indicating that they were the flickering lights of terrified men.
MOLLY has refrained from speaking to the Obidil, whom she longed to see face-to-face, but has never seen him in person.
The character has a strong fit of laughter at the thought of possible punishments inflicted by Youdi, causing her to shake and her whole body to shake.
Her laughter caused her to lean against a tree or against a bujW and she describes her laughter as a strange and possibly misnamed form of laughter due to indolence or ignorance, similar to the image of a

I was spending the day in a shelter and felt content, content, and almost elated with my performance.
Gaber, a character named Moran, had already been there for some time and was sitting on a tree-stump, half asleep.
Moran was dressed as he was the last time I saw him and was dressed in his Sunday clothes.
 Moran suffers from a sickness and is unable to walk.
He has a son who has abandoned him.
The character Jacques has a small electric torch and a notebook, which he uses to communicate his thoughts and feelings.
Jacques has not shaved since the day his son brought back the bicycle from Hole, he has not combed his hair

Gaber is concerned about a man named Moran who keeps rubbing his hands from morning to night.
Gaber has a walrus moustache, chestnut in colour, and a deep voice.
Despite her loathing for MOLLO Y 165, Gaber holds Moran back by the sleeve despite her weakness and a sick leg.
Moran is getting old and is becoming a nuisance to Gaber.
A man who pushed Gaber to the ground did not intend to make him fall and only wanted to push him away.

 SAMUEL BECKETT is a character who has a faithful umbrella.
SAMUEL has torn up a lot of grass and earth and was about to start uprooting it when he woke up.
Samuel decided to stop uprooting and set out for home that night, but he didn't get far.
Each day saw Samuel advance a little further and count by tens of steps each time he reached a certain distance.
He used to think that men would never get the better of him, believing he is cleverer than things.
Despite his thoughts, Samuel ate according to the voice of reason, nature, the woods, the fields, the waters, and nature, and was ordered home in the spring of the following year after finishing morphine in August or September.
When a thing resists him, even if it is for his own good, it doesn't resist him long.
The snow initially resisted Samuel more than it resisted him, but eventually he vanquished it and forged his way through the snow towards his ruin, grinding his teeth with joy.

On the way home, I experienced a knee injury that was neither more nor less painful than the previous one.
I was thinking about flies that hatch out at the beginning of winter, die shortly after, and are described as puny, sluggish, torpid, mute, and possibly very young.
In the past, I thought of these flies as those that hatch from warm, warm corners and die very young, without being able to lay.
If I had made up my mind not to keep the hangman waiting, I would have performed a ritual of cleansing and chanting maledictions and would have made it home on all fours.
At the time, I was succumbing to other affections and was not dwelling on the journey home due to fear and fear of fiends in human shape and phantoms

The questions are about devils and devils not feeling the pains of hell and the excommunication of vermin in the sixteenth century.
Saint-Roch refused to suck on Wed-Nesdays and Fridays.
Lovat, an Italian cobbler, had 168 SAMUHL BECKETT cut off his testicles and crucified himself.
Ydi, Gaber, Molloy, his mother, Yerk, Murphy, Watt, Camier, Zulu, the Eisner sisters, are they still living? 12 Acacia Square is Youdi's business address.
The winter has been exceptionally severe and

The dance of the bees involves a system of signals by which the incoming bees communicate with the outgoing ones.
Samuel Beckett claims to be the only one who knows this phenomenon.
The dance is best observed among the bees re-turning to the hive, laden with nectar, and involves a great variety of figures and rhythms.
In the outgoing bees dance and communicate with each other during the dance, but when they are away from the hive and busy at work, they do not dance.
SAMUEL BECKETT deduced that each figure in the dance is reinforced by a hum, but he was forced to abandon his hypothesis when he saw the same figure repeated by different hums.
He has collected and classified a great number of observations on the subject and has developed a conviction that the selfsame figure, accompanied by the self-same hum, does not mean the same thing at twelve feet from the ground as it does at six feet. 170Samuel believes that the bees dance at three or four levels, always the same

During the long journey home, the thought of my bees and their dance was the closest thing to comfort for me.
I have spoken of a voice giving me orders or advice, but it was on the way home that I heard it for the first time.
Physically speaking, I was becoming unrecognisable, and when I passed my hands over my face, the face I felt was not my face any more and the hands I felt were no longer my hands.
My old belly was covered with deep lesions and wounds.
Despite the deep lesions on my belly, I knew who I was but did not know my old belly.
Clothes that cleave close to the body and are inseparable from it, such as tough and good cut clothing

The character 172 SAMUEL BECKETT has blue flesh between the knicker-bockers and the tops of her boots.
Her boots became rigid due to lack of proper care and her drawers and breeches rotted due to constant contact with her incontinences.
She discarded two pairs of drawers (two pairs) and the seat of her breeches before it too decomposed, sawed her crack from Dan to Beersheba.
SamuEL BeckETT often wore her shirt inside out and back to front, and she had four ways of wearing her shirt: front to front right side out, front to back inside out, side to side, and front to side inside out.
SAMUEL BecketT kept her tie, knotted around her bare neck,

When it was raining heavily, MOLLY 173 would have waited for the rain to stop before sheltering under an umbrella.
When her arm was tired of holding up the umbrella, she gave it to another hand and used it to keep the blood trickling freely or to draw it over her face in a gesture characteristic of her.
During the rain, when it became clear that the rain would not stop all day or all night, she built a proper shelter made of boughs and filled it with her son's raincoat, a trench-coat, which filled all space.
MOLLOY 173 prefers to shelter under umbrellas, trees, hedges, bushes, or shrubs and prefers to take shelter under umbrella shelters.
She has no intention of seeking help for shelter and has no desire to turn for help to villages or the peasants.
After spending two days alone and alone in a place where she was alone, she was brutally accosted by a farmer who was wearing an oilskin, a bowler hat, and wellingtons, and holding a lantern.
The farmer was a big ruddy farmer, wearing a

Samukl Beckett was trespassing on someone's land, which was not owned by him, trespassing at night and in bad weather in a place not fit for a dog. 174 SAMUKL BECKETT has a reputation for raising her eyebrows and has a pronounced voice, which impresses Samukl.
A man held a spade with which he threatened to kill her with if necessary.
The man seized SamukL Beckett by the jacket and by the lapel, threatening to shake her.
SamukL has a vow to the Turdy Madonna, which she refers to as a pilgrimage.
She lost her infant boy and kept his mamma due to the influence of a woman named Ninette, who she considers the Madonna of pregnant women, especially of pregnant married women.
Due to Ninette's influence, Samuel Beckett has vowed to thank her for saving his son's life.
He asked for a favor from a cattle breeder for hot tea to revive him, which he granted.

MoLLOY has a plot to own a plot in perpetuity, which is a great thing to own but a great deal of work to maintain.
He has sworn to make a bee-line to her and has made a promise to do so.
MOLLOY took a florin from his pocket and gave it to him for a poor-box for charity.
The plot MoLLOY owns is located at a graveyard at night, at a steep lane and in the dark, with a little wind and a faint sky, and a wicket that is locked properly.
MoLLY found a key to the wicket but the key didn't turn, so he threw himself at the hole and burst into the hole.
Upon entering the hole, he smelled sweet, lilacs and primroses and decided to go towards his hives.
In the hives, he found a hive with a sharp roof, steep over-hanging slopes, empty trays, and dry, dry light ball of honey in a corner of the hive.
There were dead bees in the hive and hens in the hen-house but they were not killed in the same way as the grey one.

Samuel Beckett had keys to Martha's room, but there was no one in there. 176Samuel was offered to let the company keep the light in Martha's house, but decided to let them keep it.
Samuel received a letter from Youdi asking for a report from Gaber and a visit from Father Ambrose, both in the third person.
Hanna gave Samuel news of Zulu, of the Eisner sisters, and Zulu and was not afraid of him, she talked about Zulu from her window, she disliked going out, and she never went out.
SAMUEL Beckett found a handful of bees, a dust of annulets and wings, some letters from Savory, and his son, who was well, in a box of letters at the foot of the stairs.
He has been a man for a long time and has heavy debts, he decides not to light the lamp again and goes into the garden to think of the long May and June days he lived in the garden, which were lovely days and he thinks of the summer he spent in the

The language I was speaking to did not use the words that Moran was taught by his father when he was a child.
The language wanted me to write a report after midnight.
Samuel Beckett has been abused by those who have abused her since she was born.
SAMUEL BECKETT no longer has a need for prettiness and prefers to let herself die quietly, without rushing things.
She has moved to a place where she feels more neutral and inert, where she can no longer weigh upon the balance.
 Samuel Beckett still has occasional fits of impatience, but she is less given to them since coming to this place.

The character $ MALONE DIES 181 has an old debtor who owes money to him and is waiting for him to repay it.
The character is planning to tell himself stories, which will be calm and lifeless, devoid of ugliness, beauty, or fever, and almost lifeless.
He has enough money to repay the debt and does not need anything more.
While waiting for the old debtor to repay him, the character plans to play only part of the time from now on, if he can, and intends to play a great part of it if possible.
If the character doesn't succeed, he plans to tell four stories during the night if he doesn't play with himself.
In his mind, he does not forgive anyone, wishing them an atrocious life and wishes them an

The story has a theme of a man, a woman, a third story about a thing, an animal, a bird, and a fourth story about an animal.
The character SAMUEL BECKETT is planning to leave an inventory of his possessions.
Samuel has been planning to do this for a long time and has long dreamed of doing it.
He intends to start with the first of three stories about a man and a woman and end with a story about something, probably a stone.
If the inventory is finished too soon, the remaining items in the possession will be discussed as a kind of inventory.
According to Samuel, the inventory would take less than a quarter of an hour if he is short of time.
SAMUEL is aware of the possibility of dying suddenly.
