
The Gospel in Brief Translation from the Public Domain

The readings of the Lord's Prayer.

The New Year: A Journey through the Twelve Books of the Bible

Innate and false interpretations of the teaching of Jesus in the Old and New Testaments

The teaching of Jesus: justification for his accusers.

Is there a need for a higher authority in teaching of Christ?

The Last Supper: A Journey through Ten Lessons

Let me die for I cannot live without the gates of death.

I will be on the last day of fasting in Jerusalem.

The gates of God: from the Temple to the gates of death

The washing of his feet and the washing of the apostles and prophets.

When did I see John in the wilderness?

On the last and beginning of the Kingdom of God

A thousand years' experience with a stony seed.

The second commandment: Do not swear or go to jail for an ox.

hypocrites: are they right or wrong?

On the origins of ultra-fine anaphase bridges.

I will not teach you my laws in your own name.

A new look at the origins of Bread and wine

The last rites of senile death: eukaryote death by lethal injection.

Gates of death: new look at the gates of death

Is there a way to save a man?

When I give my master's money I will do so for the rest of my life

I saw Jesus I thought he had gone to a tax-farmer's tree

When I am ready to serve my father I cannot go to God.

The last time I said I am with my Father.

Generation of Jews - a new look at the gates of death

My life for men: I give up my life for men.

The last penny I will call them when I am done with my studies.

My dear brother: I will never leave you.

Let the gates of death pass by yourselves.

The Ark of the Kingdom of God is a man's best friend.

Tit-for-Tat: I give my soul to the devil and I cannot make a deal with the devil

A quarrel between two teachers of the Bible.

When I chose between killing him or letting go of my friend.

He who is born of man is justified in his own light.

I give birth to a son, Judas.

I cannot show you the lilies of the earth. I cannot show you the Father's house.

I will be with you at the beginning of your life.

I will show you the way of Judas.

The killing of a blasphemer: who is he?

Let me crucify you! I will crucify you!

The Sabbath and all other spiritual obligations of man and God

A new look at the lilies of the earth

Water Is a Helper of the Father's Spirit—26 Years of Life

Evil cannot be overcome by force or blood.

Maximal allowance for the life of the self-Rich.

The last and the true life of a slave.

Life is sweet: I give thanks for your teaching.

Temptations of men: when is he at the right time?

Ancient Egypt and the Four Hallmarks of Life

He's gone, he's back.

The washing of the blood of a betrayer.

When I am gone I will overcome my doubts.

Caiaphas: I am a son of God, I am on trial for my death

Self-incompatibility Genes of Brassica: Expression and Use in Genetic Ablation of Floral Tissues

Brief Translation of the Bible in Translation from the Public Domain

The teaching of Jesus: justification for his accusers.

On the last day of fasting in Jerusalem.

On the last and beginning of the Kingdom of God A thousand years' experience with a stony seed.

On the origins of ultra-fine anaphase bridges.

Gates of death: new mechanisms of human mortality

When I am ready to serve my father I cannot go to God.

The last penny I will call my dear brother.

Tit-for-Tat: I give my soul to the devil and I cannot make a deal with the A side of the Bible.

I cannot show you the lilies of the earth. I cannot show you the Son of God.

Let me crucify you! I will crucify you!

Water Is a Helper of the Father's Spirit—26 Years of Life

Life is sweet: I give thanks for your teaching

Is there a way to wash the blood of a betrayer?

Brief Translation of the Bible in Translation from the Public Domain

On the origins of ultra-fine anaphase bridges

Tit-for-Tat: I give my soul to the devil and I cannot make a deal with God.

Life is sweet: I give thanks for your teaching me

Ancient ultra-fine anaphase bridges.
