Iteration 0


Metamorphosis in His room, a proper human room

How long will Gregor be waiting for the next train?

When he finally got his head out of the bed.

A new look at the early morning in the kitchen

I’m feeling alright after a while.

Turning the key: Gregor pulls the lock from his pocket

Last time I went away from the office.

Gregor’s father had a go at the chief clerk’s office

A new look at the family of fallen heroes

Baby Ate This Life: A Blossoming of Relevance to Me

His mother is gone but not for long.

Gregor's mother always wanted to go back to the window.

Gregor and his mother had a very long wait for a first birthday.

His mother’s voice still there: Gregor crawling through the dark- and light-adapted mouse house

Grete and his mother had a go at it.

Gregor can stand up straight without stopping his father

Getting back to bed early: quiet is back

A new look at the bedside of Gregor's mum and sister

End of the line: no-one is watching.

A new look at the old problem--a son playing with the violin.

The last time I saw a neighbour gone.

A beginning of the end: Gregor pulls his sister out of his wheelchair

The last time I saw my mum was in June.

All photographs from around the world with bird’s-eye view

Agreement between you and GutenbergTM for the use and maintenance of electronic works

If you are willing to pay a fee for access to or distribution of Project Gutenberg works in non-compatible format

The Agreement for the Free Distribution of Electronic Books
Iteration 1


Metamorphosis in His room, a proper human room

Turning the tide: Gregor pulls the lock from his pocket

A new look at the family of heroes: from the bedside to the bench

Gregor crawling through the dark- and light-adapted mouse house

Getting back to bed early: quiet back at the bedside.

The last time I saw my sister. I'm gone.

Agreement between you and GutenbergTM for the use and maintenance of electronic works
Iteration 2


Metamorphosis in His room, a proper human room

Getting back to bed early: quiet back in the bedside.
Iteration 3


Metamorphosis in His room back in the bedside.
