Summarizing: Molloy I am in my mother’s room. It’s I who live there now. I don’t know how I got tl^pre. Perhaps in an ambulance, certainly a vehicle of some kind. I was helped. I’d never have got there alone. There’s this man who comes every week. Perhaps I got here thanks to him. He says not. He gives me money and takes away the pages. So many pages, so much money. Yes, I work now, a little like I used to, except that I don’t know how to work any more. That doesn’t matter apparently. What I’d like now is to speak of the things that arc left, say my good-byes, finish dying. They don’t want that. Yes, there is more than one, apparently. But it’s always the same one that comes. You’ll do that later, he says. Good. The truth is I haven’t m’’ch will left. When he comes for the fresh pages he brings back the previous week’s. They arc marked with signs I don’t under- stand. Anyway I don’t read them. When I’ve done nothing he, gives me nothing, he scolds me. Yet I don’t work for money. For what then? I don’t know. The truth is I don’t know much. For example my mother’s death. Was she already cjpad when I came? Or did she only die later? I mean enough to bury. I don’t know. Perhaps 8 SAMUEL BECKETT they haven’t buried her yet. In any case I have her room. I sleep in her

Summary: 
Molloy is living in her mother's room now and doesn't know how she got there. Molloy was helped by a man who gives her money and takes away pages every week. The man who takes the pages and gives money to the pages is the same one who always gives the pages back with the previous week's pages. Despite the money and the pages being taken away by the man every week, despite not working for money and not having any money left, she doesn't sleep in her room and has her room to herself. She has no idea how to work and doesn’t know how to do it. She wants to say her good-byes and finish dying, but her family doesn't want her to.



Summarizing: bed. I piss and shit in her pot. I have taken her place. I must resemble her more and more. All I need now is a son. Perhaps I have one somewhere. But I think not. He would be old now, nearly as old as myself. It was a little chambermaid. It wasn’t true love. The true love was in another. We’ll come to that. Her name? I’ve forgotten it again. It seems to me sometimes that I even knew my son, that I helped him. Then I tell myself it’s impossible. It’s impos- sible I could ever have helped anyone. I’ve forgotten how to spell too, and half the words. That doesn’t matter apparently. Good. He’s a queer one the one who conics to see me. He comes every Sunday apparently. The other days he isn't free. He’s always thirsty. It was he told me I’d begun all wrong, that I should have begun differently. He must be right. I began at the beginning, like an old ballocks, can you imagine that? Here’s my beginning. Because they’re keep- ing it apparently. I took a lot of trouble with it. Here it is. It gave me a lot of trouble. It was the beginning, do you understand? Whereas now it’s nearly the end. Is what I do now any better? I don’t know. That’s beside the point. Here's my beginning. It must mean something, or they wouldn’t keep it. Here it