Full text of "The Divine comedy"
LA  COMEDIA  DI  DANTE  ALIGHIERI 

THE  DIVINE  COMEDY 

Translated  by 
HENRY  JOHNSON 


NEW  HAVEN:  YALE  UNIVERSITY  PRESS 

LONDON:   HUMPHREY  MILFORD 

OXFORD  UNIVERSITY  PRESS 

MDCCCCXVI 


pa 


Great  Singer  of  the  waking  soul  immortal, 

Great  Poet,  fearless  in  the  depths  of  being. 

Great  Lover,  who  in  life  hast  passed  death's  portal, 

I  follow  after,  in  thy  clear  light  seeing 

The  flashings  greet  thee  in  the  abyss  of  thunder ; 

Below  us  now  the  last,  faint  cloudlet  fleeing 

As  thou  beholdest  Her  in  heavenly  wonder; 

Light  upon  light  beyond  the  bounds  of  story. 

Thy  powers  to  bear  no  more,  bursting  asunder 

Nearing  the  presence  of  transcending  Glory. 


M855DiS 


PREFACE 

The  purpose  of  the  present  translator  has  been  to  render 
the  poem  of  Dante  into  modern  English,  line-for-line.  A 
preface  which  should  attempt  to  state  his  complete  obliga- 
tions would  look  like  a  bibliography,  and  would  certainly 
be  unsatisfactory  in  one  phase,  namely,  in  the  expression 
of  just  feelings.  Long  study  of  some  books  which  never 
disappoint,  such  as  Toynbee's  Dante  Dictionary  and 
Charles  Eliot  Norton's  prose  translation  of  the  Divine 
Comedy,  makes  a  mere  mention  of  their  titles  almost  a 
personal  neglect.  One  would  also  gladly  record  his  grati- 
tude for  pleasure  and  profit  from  writings  that  help 
genially  and  with  an  ample,  scholarly  generosity,  such  as 
the  commentary  of  Benvenuto  da  Imola  in  its  original  form 
or  as  expounded  in  the  valuable  Vernon  Readings.  In 
view  of  the  essential  inadequacy  of  any  enumeration  of 
books  used  such  a  listing  has  not  been  attempted. 

Since  a  metrical  translation  is  a  work  of  art  as  well  as 
a  work  of  science,  the  translator  must  avoid,  when  he  is  at 
his  task,  consultation  of  previous  poetical  solutions  of  the 
problem.  Given  the  Italian  text  and  sound  commentaries, 
it  has  seemed  merely  honorable  to  rely  solely  on  one's 
control  of  the  English  medium,  unaided.  That  the  result 
should  prove  the  same  as  another's  in  very  many  cases  has 
not  caused  discouragement.  Translation  of  the  Divine 
Comedy  is  progressive,  yet  the  time  seems  not  yet  come  for 
a  variorum,  composite  version.  The  English  language  has 
after  long  literary  use  become  sufficiently  clarified  to  fur- 
nish the  verbal  and  rhythmical  means  of  embodying  any 


viii  PREFACE 

thought.  Experiments  in  imitating  foreign  excellences 
have  their  own  interest ;  yet  criticism  rejoices  that  the  day 
of  mock-Miltonic  lines  or  like  solecisms  is  past. 

Purity  in  rendering  is  now  so  highly  esteemed  that  the 
intrusion  of  an  explanation  into  a  text  is  intellectually 
resented.  Only  Dante  could  tell  what  he  would  change  if 
he  were  engaged  on  the  Comedy  today.  As  Dante  is  a  very 
great  poet,  every  quality  of  his  style  demands  considera- 
tion ;  his  choice  of  words  and  of  their  place  in  sentence  and 
in  line  can  not  be  deemed  fortuitous.  His  firmness  of 
phrase  is  that  of  a  living  organism,  and  not  of  a  crystal. 
The  beauty  and  strength  of  the  Italian  language  and  the 
charm  of  rhyme  as  used  by  the  poet  are  not  to  be  enjoyed 
completely  by  those  to  whom  the  idiom  is  not  native.  An 
English  translator  of  the  Divine  Comedy  has  at  his  com- 
mand, even  if  he  were  perfectly  in  control  of  his  medium, 
only  the  strength  and  beauty  of  his  own  language;  his 
results  can  be  at  best  an  English  re-expression  of  his 
original,  and  with  such  rhythmical  qualities  as  are  pleasing 
to  the  English  ear.  Good  workmanship  asks  the  favor  of 
no  poetical  or  other  license,  but  claims  the  privilege  of 
occasional  expression  of  a  necessary  connoted  value,  for 
example,  of  a  **then*'  or  "there,'*  or  the  use  of  an  ellipsis 
when  the  Italian  poet  has  worked  thus  economically. 

It  is  a  fact,  perhaps  not  too  obvious  to  mention,  that  a 
translator  of  the  Divine  Comedy  must  receive  his  first 
impulse  from  within,  and  must  continue  to  the  end  in  a 
kind  of  solitude,  looking  to  a  reward  that  is  ideal.  His 
object  is  to  attain,  without  sparing  himself  conscientious 
endeavor,  a  faithful  result.  His  courage  is  his  own,  and  he 
values  above  price  the  personal  help  which  he  receives  from 
friends  as  unpractical  as  himself.  The  present  translator's 
indebtedness  is  great  to  the  corporation  of  his  college  for 
their  indulgence,  which  has  rendered  possible  the  making  of 


PREFACE  ix 

this  by-product  since  its  inception  in  1892,  and  to  the 
Bowdoin  library  that  has  generously  supplemented  his  own 
working  collection  by  the  purchase,  especially,  of  the 
reprints  of  the  editions  of  the  early  commentaries.  His 
debt  of  gratitude  to  three  friends  who  have  gone  over  the 
proofs  of  the  translation  can  not  be  adequately  stated  in 
a  few  words.  Professor  Kenneth  McKenzie  of  Yale  Uni- 
versity has  given  the  translator  the  benefit  of  invaluable 
critical  observations,  of  a  scholarly  and  literary  excellence 
that  it  would  be  impertinent  to  praise.  To  Dean  Kenneth 
C.  M.  Sills  and  Professor  Frederic  W.  Brown,  colleagues 
of  the  translator,  his  obligation  is  intimate  and  of  wide 
scope  for  helpfulness  in  discussion  of  every  factor  of  his 
work;  their  unstinting  and  self-sacrificing  willingness  at 
all  times  and  the  contribution  of  both  when  aid  was  needed 
leave  the  maker  of  this  book  forever  in  their  debt. 

It  has  seemed  well  to  put  in  an  appendix  rather  than  in 
footnotes  translations  of  the  Latin  which  Dante  employed 
in  the  original  text.  The  other  non-Italian  lines,  the  Pro- 
vengal  passage,  Purg.  XXYI.  140-147,  have  been  trans- 
lated at  their  place  in  the  text. 

Bowdoin  College, 
February  1,  1915. 


CONTENTS 


INFERNO  ^■yf 

Introductory — The  Forest — The  Mountain — The  Three  Beasts 
— ^Virgil       ......... 

Canto  II 

Dante's      Doubt — The      Three      Heavenly      Ladies — ^Dante 

Eeassured    .         .         .         .         .         .         .         .         .6 

Canto  III 

The  Gate  of  Hell — The  Vestibule — Punishment  of  the  Luke- 
warm— The  Acheron — Charon — The  Earthquake — Dante 's 
Swoon  .........  9 

V- 
Canto  IV 

First  Circle  of  Inferno — ^Limbo,  Abode  of  the  Virtuous 
Heathen — Homer — The  Noble  Castle — Great  Personages 
of  History  and  Scholars  of  Antiquity   ....  13 

Canto  V 

Second  Circle — Upper  Inferno — Punishment  of  Sins  of  Incon- 
tinence— Minos — The  First  Landslide — Punishment  of  the 
Lustful — The  Infernal  Gate — Semiramis,  Dido,  Cleopatra 
— Paolo  and  Francesca  ......  18 

Canto  VI 

Third  Circle — Cerberus — Punishment  of  the  Gluttonous — The 
Filthy  Eain — Ciacco — He  foretells  the  fortunes  of  the 
Blacks  and  Whites  in  Florence       .....  22 


xii  CONTENTS 

Canto  VII 

Fourth  Circle — Plutus — Punishment  of  the  Avaricious  and  the 
Prodigal — The  Endless  Stone-rolling — Fortune — Descent 
to  the  Fifth  Circle — The  Stygian  Marsh — Punishment  of 
the  Wrathful 26 


Canto  VIII 


1/ 


Fifth  Circle — Phlegyas — Filippo  Argenti — The  City  of  Dis — 
Lower  Inferno — Punishment  of  Sins  of  Violence — 
Entrance  of  Virgil  and  Dante  to  Dis  opposed  by  the  Evil 
Spirits 30 


Canto  IX 


V/ 


Virgil  tells  Dante  of  a  previous  Visit  to  Lower  Inferno — 
Appearance  of  the  Three  Furies  and  Medusa — The 
coming  of  the  Angel  who  opens  the  Gate  of  Dis — Sixth 
Circle — Punishment  of  Heretics — The  Burning  Tombs   .  34 


Canto  X 


J 


Sixth  Circle — Farinata  degli  Uberti — Cavalcante  de '  Caval- 
canti — Farinata  foretells  Dante's  continued  Exile — The 
Damned  without  Knowledge  of  the  Present  .         .         .    /     38 

Canto  XI 

Sixth  Circle — Pope  Anastatius  II. — Classification  of  the  Sins 
punished  in  Lower  Inferno — Three  classes  of  Violence,  in 
Three  Eings  of  the  Seventh  Circle — Two  kinds  of  Fraud — 
Ten  classes  of  ordinary  Fraud,  in  the  Ten  Bolge  of  the 
Eighth  Circle — Treachery,  in  the  Ninth  and  last  Circle — 
The  less  heinous  Sins  of  Incontinence,  outside  Lower 
Inferno — Virgil  explains  the  nature  of  Usury         .         .  48 

Canto  XII    ^ 

Seventh  Circle,  First  Ring — Punishment  of  the  Sin  of  Violence 
against  one's  Neighbor — The  Minotaur — The  Second 
Landslide — The  River  of  Blood — The  Centaurs,  Chiron, 
Nessus — Tyrants,  Dionysius — Murderers,  Guy  de  Mont- 
fort,  Attila,  Pyrrhus    .......  45 


CONTENTS  xiii 

Canto  XIII  ^ 

Seventh  Circle,  Second  Eing — Punishment  of  the  Sin  of 
Violence  against  Oneself — The  Forest  of  Suicides — Pier 
delle  Vigne — The  Squanderers — The  Black  Hounds  .  49 

Canto  XIV 

Seventh  Circle,  Third  Eing — Punishment  of  the  Sin  of  Vio- 
lence against  God — The  Sandy  Plain  and  the  Eain  of  Fire 
— Capaneus — Phlegethon — The  Source  of  the  Elvers  of 
Inferno — The  Statue  in  Crete       .....  54 

Canto  XV     ^ 

Seventh  Circle,  Third  Eing — Violence  against  Nature,  Sodomy 
— Brunetto  Latini — His  bitter  Denunciation  of  the  Flor- 
entines— He  foretells  Dante's  Suffering  at  their  hands  .  58 

Canto  XVI 

Seventh  Circle,  Third  Eing — Other  Sodomites — Three  Floren- 
tines— Dante  explains  the  Degeneracy  of  Florence — 
Approach  to  the  Descent  into  the  Eighth  Circle — Dante's 
Girdle — First  Glimpse  of  Geryon  .....  62 

Canto  XVII 

Seventh  Circle,  Third  Eing— The  Third  kind  of  Violence 
against  God,  Usury — Description  of  Geryon — ^Descent  on 
Geryon 's  Back  to  the  Eighth  Circle         .... 

Canto  XVIII 

Eighth   Circle — Punishment  of  the  Fraudulent,   scourged  by     * 
Horned  Demons — Malebolge — First  Bolgia — Panders  and 
Seducers — Jason — Second  Bolgia — Flatterers — The  Ditch 
of  Filth 70 

Canto  XIX 

Eighth  Circle — Third  Bolgia — Simonists — The  Sinners,  head 
downwards  and  with  their  feet  burning — Eeference  to 
Dante's  Breaking  of  the  Font  in  the  Baptistery — Descent 
into  the  Bolgia — Pope  Nicholas  III. — Dante  inveighs 
against  the  Greed  of  the  Popes   .....  74 


xiv  CONTENTS 

Canto  XX 

Eighth  Circle — Fourth  Bolgia — Soothsayers — The  Sinners, 
with  heads  twisted,  look  constantly  backward — Manto — 
Virgil  relates  the  Founding  of  Mantua  ....  78 

Canto  XXI 

Eighth  Circle — Fifth  Bolgia — Barrators — The  Sinners  im- 
mersed in  boiling  Pitch — Reference  to  the  Arsenal  at 
Venice — Malebranche — The  next  Bridge  shattered  when 
Christ  descended  into  Hell   ......  82 

Canto  XXII 

Eighth  Circle — Fifth  Bolgia — A  Barrator  tricks  the  Devils 
and  escapes  their  Hooks — Two  Devils  in  Pursuit  fight  and 
fall  into  the  Pitch 86 

Canto  XXIII 

Eighth  Circle — Virgil  with  Dante  in  his  arms  escapes  from 
the  Devils  by  sliding  down  the  Embankment  to  the  Sixth 
Bolgia — Hypocrites — The  Sinners  wear  cowled  Cloaks  of 
gilded  lead — The  Jovial  Friars  of  Bologna — Caiaphas   .  91 

Canto  XXIV 

Eighth  Circle — The  simile  of  the  Frost — Virgil  and  Dante 
climb  up  over  the  broken  Bridge  to  the  Bank  of  the 
Seventh  Bolgia — Thieves — The  naked  Sinners  are  tor- 
mented by  Serpents — Vanni  Fucci — He  prophesies  Dis- 
aster to  the  Whites       .......  95 

Canto  XXV      ^ 

Eighth  Circle — Seventh  Bolgia — Cacus — A  Sinner  bitten  by  a 
Serpent  unites  with  it  in  the  single  form  of  a  Serpent — 
Another  Sinner  bitten  by  a  Serpent  exchanges  forms  with 
it 100 

Canto  XXVI 

Eighth  Circle — Eighth  Bolgia — Evil  Counsellors — Each  Sinner 
is  enveloped  in  a  Flame — Ulysses — He  relates  the  Story  of 
his  last  Voyage   ........         105 


CONTENTS  XV 

Canto  XXVII 

Eighth  Circle — Eighth  Bolgia — Guido  da  Montefeltro — He 
tells  of  the  evil  counsel  that  he  gave  Boniface  VIII.  and 
of  the  vain  effort  of  St.  Francis  to  claim  his  soul  after 
death 109 

Canto  XXVIII 

Eighth  Circle — Ninth  Bolgia — ^Its  Appearance  compared  with 
the  Carnage  on  the  Battlefields  of  Southern  Italy  from 
earliest  Times — Schismatics  and  Sowers  of  Strife — The 
Sinners  are  horribly  dismembered  by  a  Devil  with  a 
Sword — ^Mahomet — Curio — Mosca  de '  Lamberti — Bertran 
de  Born 113 

Canto  XXIX 

Eighth  Circle — The  Poets  leave  the  Ninth  Bolgia — Geri  del 
Bello — Tenth  Bolgia — ^Falsifiers — The  Sinners  are  wasted 
by  loathsome  Diseases — First  class  of  Falsifiers,  Al- 
chemists— They  are  tortured  by  Leprosy  .         .         .         117 

Canto  XXX 

Eighth  Circle — Tenth  Bolgia — Three  other  classes  of  Falsi- 
fiers: False  Personators,  Counterfeiters,  Liars — These  are 
afflicted  respectively  with  Madness,  Dropsy  and  Fever — 
Potiphar's  Wife— Sinon 122 

Canto  XXXI 

The  Poets  leave  the  Tenth  Bolgia — The  Giants — Nimrod — 
Antaeus  sets  Virgil  and  Dante  down  in  the  Ninth  Circle, 
the  Pit  of  Inferno 126 

Canto  XXXII 

Ninth  Circle — Traitors — The  Plain  of  Ice — Caina — Traitors 
to  kindred — Antenora — Traitors  to  Party  or  Country — 
The  Florentine  Traitor  at  Montaperti — Ganelon       .  .         130 


xvi  CONTENTS 

Canto  XXXIII 

Ninth  Circle — Antenora — Count  Ugolino — Tolomea — Traitors 
to  Guests — Frate  Alberigo — The  Bodies  of  certain  Trai- 
tors in  Tolomea  still  alive  on  earth — Dante's  harsh  treat- 
ment of  Alberigo  .......         135 

Canto  XXXIV 

Ninth  Circle — Judeeca — Traitors  to  Benefactors — Lucifer — 
Judas — Brutus  and  Cassius — The  Poets  pass  the  Centre 
of  the  Earth  at  Lucifer's  Waist  and  climb  to  the  Sur- 
face on  the  other  Side  .  .  .  .  .  .  .         139 


PURGATORIO 

Canto  I 

Invocation  of  the  Muses — Dawn  on  the  Shore  of  Purgatory — 
The  new  Constellation,  symbolic  of  the  Four  Cardinal 
Virtues — Cato,  the  Custodian  of  Purgatory — Virgil  ex- 
plains Dante's  presence — Virgil  cleanses  Dante's  Face 
from  the  Stains  of  Hell,  and  girds  him  with  a  Rush       .         147 

Canto  II 

Sunrise — The  Coming  of  the  Boat  with  the  Angelic  Pilot, 
bringing  Souls  to  Purgatory — Dante  is  dazzled  by  the 
Vision — The  Souls  newly  landed  marvel  at  the  sight  of  a 
living  Man — Dante  recognizes  his  friend  Casella  among 
them  and  vainly  tries  to  embrace  him — Casella 's  Song — 
The  Souls  listening  to  it  are  rebuked  by  Cato  who  sends 
them  forward  on  their  journey       .....         151 

Canto  III 

Ante-Purgatory — The  first  class  of  the  Negligent,  Souls  of 

those  who  died  excommunicated  but  repentant — Manfred        155 


CONTENTS  xvii 

Canto  IV 

Ante-Purgatory — The  Poets  begin  the  Ascent  of  the  Mountain 
— The  second  class  of  the  Negligent,  Souls  of  those  who 
deferred  repentance  until  the  close  of  Life — Belacqua       .         159 

Canto  V 

Ante-Purgatory — The  third  class  of  the  Negligent,  Souls  of 
those  who  died  by  violence  but  repented — Buonconto  da 
Montefeltro— Pia  de*  Tolomei 164 

Canto  VI 

Ante-Purgatory — Efficacy  of  Intercessory  Prayer — Fourth 
class  of  the  Negligent,  Souls  of  those  who  delayed  re- 
pentance because  of  engrossment  in  Public  Affairs — Meet- 
ing with  Sordello — ^Apostrophe  to  Italy  .  .         .  .         168 

Canto  VII 

Ante-Purgatory — Fourth  class  of  the  Negligent — Sordello 's 
Tribute  to  Virgil — Night  stays  the  Ascent — Sordello 
takes  the  Poets  to  the  Valley  of  the  Princes — Kudolph 
of  Hapsburg — Charles  of  Anjou   .  .         .  .  .         172 

Canto  VIII 

Ante-Purgatory — The  Valley  of  the  Princes — The  Two  Guar- 
dian Angels — Nino  Visconti — The  Three  Stars — The  Ser- 
pent— Conrad  Malaspina        .  .  .  .  .  .         176 

Canto  IX 

Ante-Purgatory — Dante's  Dream — Lucia — The  Gate  of  Pur- 
gatory— The  Keeper  of  the  Gate — The  Three  Steps — The 
Seven  P's— The  Two  Keys— The  Poets  enter  Purgatory  .         181 

Canto  X 

Purgatory — The  First  Ledge — Penance  for  the  Vice  of  Pride 
— The  Carvings  on  the  Mountain-wall,  illustrating 
Humility 185 


xviii  CONTENTS 

Canto  XI 

The  First  Ledge — Pride — Paraphrase  of  the  Lord's  Prayer — 
Omberto  Aldobrandesco — Oderisi  of  Gubbio — Provenzan 
Salvani 189 

Canto  XII 

The  First  Ledge — Pride — Carvings  on  the  floor  of  the  Ledge 
illustrating  this  Vice^-The  Angel — The  Removal  of  the 
First  P— The  Hill  of  San  Miniato— The  Ascent  to  the 
Second  Ledge 193 

Canto  XIII 

The  Second  Ledge — Penance  for  the  Vice  of  Envy — Instancefl 

of  Love,  given  by  mysterious  Voices — Sapia  of  Siena      .         198 

Canto  XIV 

The  Second  Ledge — Envy — Guido  del  Duca — His  Denunciation 

of  the  Cities  along  the  Arno — Examples  of  Envy       .      .         202 

Canto  XV 

The  Second  Ledge — Envy — Removal  of  the  Second  P — Virgil 
discourses  upon  temporal  and  spiritual  Possession — The 
Ascent  to  the  Third  Ledge — Penance  for  the  Vice  of 
Wrath — Examples  of  Forbearance  ....         207 

Canto  XVI 

The  Third  Ledge — Wrath — The  Cloud  of  Smoke — Dante  ques- 
tions Marco  as  to  the  Cause  of  universal  Corruption — 
Marco  discourses  upon  Freewill,  the  human  Soul,  temporal 
and  spiritual  Leadership       .         .         .         .         .         .         211 

Canto  XVII 

The  Third  Ledge — Wrath — Instances  of  this  Vice  appear  to 
Dante's  Imagination — Removal  of  the  Third  P — Ascent 
to  the  Fourth  Ledge — The  Poets  are  again  stayed  by 
NighV-Virgil  explains  the  Nature  of  the  Seven  Kinds  of 
Evil  i>isposition  that  are  purged  on  the  Seven  Ledges 
of  Purgatory 216 


CONTENTS  xix 

Canto  XVIII 

The  Fourth  Ledge — Penance  for  the  Vice  of  Sloth — Virgil 
continues  his  Discourse,  expounding  the  Doctrine  of  Love 
and  Freewill — Examples  of  Zeal  and  Sloth  cried  aloud 
by  the  Spirits  as  they  run — ^Dante  falls  asleep         .  .         220 

Canto  XIX 

The  Fourth  Ledge — Sloth — Dante's  Second  Dream — The  Siren 
— The  Ascent  to  the  Fifth  Ledge — Penance  for  the  Vice 
of  Avarice — Pope  Adrian  V.  .  .  .  .  .  .         224 

Canto  XX 

The  Fifth  Ledge — ^Avarice — Instances  of  Virtuous  Poverty 
and  of  Noble  Use  of  Wealth — Hugh  Capet — He  cites 
Examples  of  Avarice — The  Trembling  of  the  Mountain  .         229 

Canto  XXI 

The  Fifth  Ledge — Avarice — The  Cause  of  the  Trembling  of 

the  Mountain — Statius — His  Eulogy  of  Virgil  .  .         233 

Canto  XXII 

The  Ascent  to  the  Sixth  Ledge — Statius  explains  his  presence 
on  the  Ledge  of  Avarice — His  Conversion  to  Christianity 
due  to  Virgil — The  Sixth  Ledge — Penance  for  the  Vice 
of  Gluttony — The  Fruit-tree  and  the  Water-fall — ^Voices 
from  the  two  proclaim  Examples  of  Temperance   .  .         237 

Canto  XXIII 

The  Sixth  Ledge — Gluttony — The  Shades  wasted  by  unsatis- 
fied Hunger — Forese  Donati — Nella — The  Immodesty  of 
the  Florentine  Women  .......         242 

Canto  XXIV 

The  Sixth  Ledge — Gluttony — Forese  Donati — ^Bonagiunta  of 
Lucca — Gentucca — Dante's  Canzone — Death  of  Corso 
Donati  predicted — The  Second  Fruit-tree — A  Voice  from 
the  Branches  cites  Examples  of  Gluttony — The  Angel — 
The  Eemoval  of  the  Sixth  P 246 


XX  CONTENTS 

Canto  XXV 

The  Ascent  to  the  Seventh  Ledge — Statins  discourses  on  the 
Eelation  of  the  Soul  and  Body  and  the  aerial  Body 
assumed  after  Death — The  Seventh  Ledge — Lust  purged 
by  Fire — Examples  of  Chastity  cried  out  by  the  Spirits 
in  the  Flames 251 

Canto  XXVI 
The  Seventh  Ledge — Lust — Guido  Guinizelli — Amaut  Daniel        255 

Canto  XXVII 

The  Seventh  Ledge — Lust — The  Poets  pass  through  the  Fire 
—The  Ascent  from  the  Seventh  Ledge— The  Third  Night- 
fall on  Purgatory — Dante's  Dream — Leah — Dawn — Virgil 
yields  his  Office  as  Guide       ......         259 

Canto  XXVIII 

The  Earthly  Paradise — The  Forest — Matilda — She  explains  to 

Dante  the  Nature  of  the  Place — Lethe  and  Eunoe  .         .         264 

Canto  XXIX 
The  Earthly  Paradise — The  mystic  Procession  of  the  Church        268 

Canto  XXX 

The  Earthly  Paradise — ^Invoked  by  the  Figures  of  the  Proces- 
sion, Beatrice  appears — Dante  turning  to  look  for  Virgil 
finds  him  gone — Beatrice  rebukes  Dante  and  tells  of  her 
Care  of  him 273 

Canto  XXXI 

The  Earthly  Paradise — Beatrice  charges  Dante  with  Unfaith- 
fulness— The  Poet,  confessing,  swoons — He  is  plunged  in 
Lethe — He  gazes  upon  Beatrice  unveiled        .         .  277 


CONTENTS  xxi 

Canto  XXXII 

The  Earthly  Paradise — The  Procession  moves  to  a  lofty  Tree 
— Dante  falls  asleep — He  wakes  to  find  Beatrice  seated 
beneath  the  Tree,  with  the  Virtues — The  Griffon  and  the 
others  have  disappeared — Allegorical  Eepresentation  of 
the  History  of  the  Church 281 

Canto  XXXIII 

The  Earthly  Paradise — Beatrice,  accompanied  by  the  others, 
leaves  the  Tree — Dante  walks  beside  her — She  foretells 
the  punishment  of  the  Church's  Enemies  and  the  Coming 
of  an  Imperial  Leader — She  bids  Dante  repeat  this 
Announcement  to  Mankind — The  Fountain — ^Dante  drinks 
of  Eunoe 286 


PARADISO 


Canto  I 

Prologue — Invocation  to  Apollo — Beatrice  and  Dante  caught 
up  into  the  Sphere  of  Fire — Beatrice  reveals  to  him  the 
Order  of  the  Universe  .  '       .  .  .         .  .         .         293 

Canto  II 

Beatrice  and  Dante  pass  into  the  Heaven  of  the  Moon — Spirits 
who  were  forced  to  violate  Monastic  Vows — The  Spots  on 
the  Moon — Beatrice  explains  the  Operation  of  the 
Heavenly  Spheres  .......         297 

Canto  III 

The  Heaven   of   the  Moon — Piccarda  Donati — The   Empress 

Constance     .........         302 

Canto  IV 

The  Heaven  of  the  Moon — Beatrice  confutes  the  Platonic 
Error  of  the  Eeturn  of  the  Soul  to  its  Native  Star — She 
explains  the  Assignment  of  Souls  to  the  Lower  Heavens        306 


xxii  CONTENTS 

Canto  V 

The  Heaven  of  the  Moon — Beatrice  continues  her  Discourse — 
Ascent  to  the  Second  Heaven — Mercury — Souls  of  the 
Ambitious — Justinian    .         .  .         .         .         .         .310 


Canto  VI 

The  Heaven  of  Mercury — Justinian — He  discourses  upon  the 
Power  of  Eome — Inveighs  against  the  Factions  of  Guelph 
and  Ghibelline — The  Seneschal  Borneo   ....         314 


Canto  VH 

The  Heaven  of  Mercury — Beatrice  discourses  upon  Bedemp- 

tion  and  the  Nature  of  Created  Things  ....         318 

Canto  VIII 

The  Ascent  to  the  Third  Heaven,  Venus — The  Souls  of 
Lovers — Carlo  Martello — He  explains  the  Origin  of 
variety  of  Disposition  and  Character    ....         323 

Canto  IX 

The    Heaven    of    Venus — Cunizza    da    Bomano — Folquet    of 

Marseilles— Bahab 327 


Canto  X 

The  Ascent  to  the  Fourth  Heaven,  the  Sun — The  Souls  of  the 

Theologians — St.  Thomas  Aquinas  ....         332 

Canto  XI 

The   Heaven   of   the   Sun — St.    Thomas   discourses   upon    St. 

Francis  of  Assisi  .......         336 

Canto  XII 
The  Heaven  of  the  Sun — St.  Bonaventura  praises  St.  Dominic        340 


CONTENTS  xxiii 

Canto  XIII 

The  Heaven  of  the  Sun — Dance  of  the  Twenty-four  Saints 
about  Dante — St.  Thomas  explains  how  Solomon  was  un- 
equalled in  Wisdom — He  warns  Dante  against  Hasty 
Judgment     .........         345 

Canto  XIV 

The  Heaven  of  the  Sun — ^Discourse  of  Solomon — The  Ascent 
to  the  Fifth  Heaven,  Mars — The  Souls  of  Warrior  Saints 
and  Martyrs — These  Souls  are  grouped  in  the  Form  of  a 
Cross 349 

Canto  XV 

The  Heaven  of  Mars — Cacciaguida — He  contrasts  the  Sim- 
plicity of  the  Florence  of  his  Day  with  the  present 
Luxury  of  the  City       .......         353 

Canto  XVI 

The   Heaven   of   Mars — Discourse    of   Cacciaguida   upon   his 

Ancestry  and  the  Florentine  Families  of  his  Time  .  .         358 

Ca^to  XVII 

The  Heaven  of  Mars — Cacciaguida  reveals  to  Dante  his 
Future — He  urges  Dante  to  relate  to  the  World  what  he 
has  learned  on  his  Journey  through  the  Eealm  of  Spirits         362 

Canto  XVIII 

The  Heaven  of  Mars — Joshua — Charlemagne — The  Ascent  to 
the  Sixth  Heaven,  Jupiter — The  Souls  of  the  Just — These 
are  grouped  in  the  Form  of  an  Eagle  ....         367 

Canto  XIX 

The  Heaven  of  Jupiter — The  Eagle  answers  Dante's  question 
as  to  the  Exclusion  of  the  Virtuous  Heathen  from  Heaven 
— Prediction  that  the  latter  will  rise  up  against  Wicked 
Sovereigns   at   the  Day  of   Judgment    ....         371 


xxiv  CONTENTS 

Canto  XX 

The  Heaven  of  Jupiter — The  Six  preeminently  Just  Souls — 

Trajan — The  Eagle  explains  his  presence  there     .         .        375 

Canto  XXI 

The  Ascent  to  the  Seventh  Heaven,  Saturn — The  Souls  of 
the  Contemplative — The  Luminous  Stairway — St.  Peter 
Damian 380 

Canto  XXII 

The  Heaven  of  Saturn — St.  Benedict — The  Ascent  to  the 
Eighth  Heaven,  the  Fixed  Stars — Dante  gazes  downward 
through  the  Seven  Spheres  at  the  Earth — His  contempt 
for  its  Insignificance     .......         384 

Canto  XXIII 

The  Heaven  of  the  Fixed  Stars— The  Triumph  of  Christ— The 

Blessed  Virgin— Gabriel 389 

Canto  XXIV 

The  Heaven  of  the  Fixed  Stars — Dante  is  examined  on  the 

subject  of  Faith  by  St.  Peter 393 

Canto  XXV 

The  Heaven  of  the  Fixed  Stars — Dante  is  examined  by  St. 

James  on  the  subject  of  Hope — St.  John  the  Evangelist  .         397 

Canto  XXVI 

The  Heaven  of  the  Fixed  Stars — Dante  is  examined  by  St. 
John  on  the  subject  of  Love — Adam — He  explains  the 
Fall  of  Man 402 

Canto  XXVII 

The  Heaven  of  the  Fixed  Stars — St.  Peter  denounces  the 
Orimee  of  the  Popes — The  Ascent  to  the  Ninth  Heaven, 
the  Primum  Mobile — Beatrice  explains  the  Nature  of  thia 
Sphere *06 


CONTENTS  XXV 

Canto  XXVIII 

The  Primum  Mobile  or  Crystalline  Heaven — The  Point  of 
Light  representing  the  Deity — The  Nine  Orders  of 
Angels — Beatrice  explains  their  Nature  ....         410 

Canto  XXIX 

The  Crystalline  Heaven — Beatrice  discourses  upon  the  subject 

of  the  Angels       ........         415 

Canto  XXX 

The  Ascent  to  the  Empyrean — The  Eiver  of  Light — The  Sea 
of  Light — The  Eose,  in  which  are  seated  the  Blessed — The 
Seat  awaiting  Henry  VII.   ......         419 

Canto  XXXI 

The  Empyrean — The  Celestial  Eose — Beatrice  resumes  her 
seat  there — St.  Bernard  becomes  Dante's  Guide — The 
Blessed  Virgin 423 

Canto  XXXII 

The  Empyrean — St.  Bernard  explains  the  Order  of  the  Blessed 

in  the  Celestial  Eose — The  Ave  Maria  sung  by  Gabriel     .         428 

Canto  XXXIII 

The  Empyrean — St.  Bernard's  Prayer  to  the  Virgin — The 
mystery  of  the  Trinity  in  Unity — The  Union  of  the 
Divine  and  the  Human  in  Christ — The  Vision  ends  .  .         432 


Appendix   ..........        439 


INFERNO 


'^ 


INFERNO 


CANTO  I 


Half-way  upon  the  journey  of  our  life 

I  roused  to  find  myself  within  a  forest 

In  darkness,  for  the  straight  way  had  been  lost. 
And  oh !  how  painful  telling  what  it  was,  * 

This  forest  wild  and  rough,  hard  to  pass  through, 

The  very  thought  of  which  renews  my  fear ! 
So  bitter  is  it,  death  is  scarcely  more ;  ^ 

But  yet,  to  treat  of  the  good  that  I  found  there, 

I  speak  of  other  things  that  there  I  saw. 
I  cannot  rightly  tell  how  I  came  there,  10 

So  full  was  I  of  slumber  at  the  moment 

At  which  I  had  abandoned  the  true  way. 
But  after  I  had  reached  a  mountain's  foot,  13 

The  place  where  to  its  termination  came 

The  valley  which  had  pierced  my  heart  with  fear, 
Upward  I  looked,  and  saw  its  shoulders  clothed  16 

Already  with  the  rays  that  planet  sheds. 

Which  leads  men  on  aright  in  every  path. 
Then  was  the  fear  a  little  quieted,  19 

Which  in  my  heart 's  lake  had  not  ceased  throughout 

The  night  that  I  had  spent  so  piteously. 
And  like  the  swimmer,  who  with  laboring  breath  22 

Has  come  forth  from  the  deep,  and  on  the  shore 

Turns  round,  a^d  gazes  at  the  perilous  sea. 
So  did  my  spirit,  which  was  still  in  flight,  25 


2  THE  DIVINE  COMEDY 

Turn  back  to  look  again  upon  the  pass, 

"Which  no  one  yet  had  ever  left  alive. 
Resting  a  while  my  weary  body,  then  28 

I  started  on  along  the  desert  slope, 

So  that  the  firm  foot  ever  was  the  lower; 
And  almost  where  the  steep  began,  behold !  31 

A  leopardess,  light  and  exceeding  agile ; 

And  she  was  covered  with  a  spotted  skin, 
And  from  before  my  face  went  not  away,  34 

But  rather  was  impeding  so  my  path. 

That  many  times  I  turned  me  to  go  back. 
The  time  was  the  beginning  of  the  morning ;  37 

The  sun  was  mounting  upward  with  those  stars, 

Which  were  with  him  when  first  the  Love  Divine 
Set  those  fair  things  in  motion ;  hence  I  deemed  ^0 

The  hour  of  time  and  the  sweet  season  grounds 

Of  hoping  well  concerning  that  wild  beast 
Of  bright  and  spotted  coat ;  and  yet  not  so,  *3 

But  that  the  sight,  which  suddenly  appeared 

Before  me,  of  a  lion  made  me  fear. 
It  seemed  to  me  that  he  was  coming  on  46 

Against  me,  with  head  high,  and  famishing, 

So  that  the  air  appeared  in  fright  at  him ; 
And  a  she- wolf,  who  in  her  leanness  seemed  ^^ 

With  every  craving  to  be  loaded  down. 

And  had  ere  now  made  many  lives  distressed. 
She  brought  upon  me  such  a  heaviness,  52 

Because  of  fear  that  sprang  from  sight  of  her, 

That  I  lost  hope  of  coming  to  the  height. 
And  like  a  man  whose  pleasure  is  to  gain,  55 

But  who,  when  comes  a  time  which  makes  him  lose, 

In  all  his  thoughts  is  saddened  and  laments, 
E  *en  such  this  restless  beast  had  rendered  me,  58 

Which,  coming  on  against  me,  thrust  me  back 


INFERNO,  I  3 

Little  by  little  where  the  sun  is  silent. 
"While  I  was  falling  to  a  lower  place,  61 

Before  my  vision  there  disclosed  himself 

One  whom  long  silence  seemed  to  have  made  hoarse. 
And  when  in  that  great  desert  I  beheld  64 

His  form,  ' '  Have  pity  on  me, ' '  I  cried  out, 

' '  Whate  'er  thou  art,  or  shade,  or  man  indeed ! ' ' 
He  answered  me :  ' '  Not  man ;  man  was  I  once,  67 

And  both  my  parents  were  of  Lombardy, 

By  country,  Mantuans ;  and  I  was  born 
Suh  Julio,  though  late,  and  passed  my  life  70 

At  Rome  beneath  the  good  Augustus '  rule 

During  the  days  of  false  and  lying  gods. 
A  poet  was  I,  and  I  sang  that  just  73 

Son  of  Anchises,  who  came  forth  from  Troy 

After  the  burning  of  proud  Ilium. 
But  thou,  why  turn'st  thou  back  to  such  distress?  76 

Why  not  ascend  this  mountain  of  delight, 

Which  is  the  source  and  cause  of  every  joy?" 

*  *  Art  thou  then,  pray,  that  Virgil,  and  that  fount  79 

Which  pours  abroad  so  wide  a  stream  of  speech  ? ' ' 
Began  I,  answering  him  with  bashful  brow ; 

*  *  Honor  and  light  of  other  poets,  now  ^2 

May  the  long  study  and  great  love  avail  me. 
Which  made  me  search  thy  volume ;  for  thou  art 

My  Master  and  my  Author ;  thou  alone  85 

Art  he  from  whom  that  fair  style  has  been  taken, 
Which  has  done  honor  to  my  name.    Behold 

The  beast,  because  of  whch  I  turned  about ;  88 

Grant  me  thy  help,  0  famous  Sage,  from  her. 
Because  she  makes  my  veins  and  pulses  tremble. ' ' 

* '  Thou  must  needs  go  another  way, ' '  said  he,  91 

When  he  observed  my  tears  begin  to  flow, 
* '  If  from  this  savage  place  thou  wouldst  escape ; 


4  THE  DIVINE  COMEDY 

Because  this  beast,  at  which  thou  criest  out,  ^ 

Allows  no  man  to  pass  along  her  way, 

But  so  obstructs  him,  that  she  works  his  death ; 
And  has  a  nature  so  malign  and  evil,  ^7 

She  never  sates  her  gluttonous  desire, 

And  after  feeding  hungers  even  more. 
Many  the  animals  with  which  she  wives,  ^^ 

And  more  still  shall  there  be,  until  the  hound 

Shall  come,  and  he  shall  make  her  die  of  grief. 
His  food  shall  not  be  either  land  or  pelf,  ^^^ 

But  wisdom,  love,  and  valor;  and  between 

Feltro  and  Feltro  shall  his  birth-place  be ; 
He  that  low  Italy  shall  save,  for  which  1^ 

The  maid  Camilla,  and  Euryalus, 

Turnus  and  Nisus,  met  their  death  by  wounds : 
And  he  shall  hunt  her  through  each  town,  until  ^^^ 

He  shall  have  put  her  back  again  in  hell. 

Whence  Envy  was  the  first  to  send  her  forth. 
Wherefore  I  think  and  judge  it  best  for  thee,  ^12 

That  thou  shouldst  follow  me,  and  I  as  guide 

Will  lead  thee  hence  through  an  eternal  place, 
Where  thou  shalt  hear  the  shriekings  of  despair  ^^^ 

Of  them,  the  ancient  spirits  in  their  pain. 

Each  one  of  whom  proclaims  the  second  death ; 
And  afterwards  see  those,  who  are  content  ^^8 

Within  the  fire,  because  they  hope  to  come. 

Whenever  it  may  be,  unto  the  blest ; 
To  whom  if  thou  wouldst  then  ascend,  for  that  ^^l 

Shall  be  a  soul  more  worthy  than  myself ; 

With  her  will  I  leave  thee  when  I  depart. 
Because  that  Emperor,  who  reigns  on  high,  ^^4 

In  that  I  was  rebellious  to  His  law. 

Wills  not  His  city  should  be  reached  through  me. 
His  sway  is  everywhere,  and  there  He  reigns,  ^^^ 


130 


INFERNO,  II 

There  is  His  city,  and  His  lofty  seat ; 

Oh,  happy  he,  whom  thereto  He  elects ! ' ' 
And  I  to  him :  * '  Poet,  I  beg  of  thee. 

By  that  God,  whom  thou  didst  not  know,  if  so 

I  may  escape  the  present  ill  and  worse. 
That  thou  wilt  lead  me  there,  where  thou  hast  said,  1^3 

That  I  may  see  Saint  Peter's  gate,  and  those 

Whom  thou  depictest  in  such  sad  estate. ' ' 
Then  he  moved  on,  and  I  behind  him  kept.  1^^ 


CANTO  II 

The  day  was  going,  and  the  darkening  air 
Was  taking  all  the  living  things  on  earth 
From  their  fatigues;  and  of  them  I  alone 

Was  making  ready  to  sustain  the  war,  * 

Both  of  the  journey  and  the  suffering. 
Which  memory,  that  errs  not,  shall  retrace. 

Ye  Muses,  lofty  Genius,  aid  me  now !  ^ 

Thou  Memory,  that  didst  inscribe  the  things 
I  saw,  here  shall  thy  dignity  appear ! 

* '  0  Poet, ' '  I  began,  ' '  who  guidest  me,  ^^ 

Consider  thou  my  strength,  if  it  suffice. 
Before  thou  trust  me  to  the  journey's  depths. 

Thou  sayest  that  the  sire  of  Silvius  13 

Went,  still  corruptible,  unto  the  world 
Immortal,  and  was  in  the  senses  there. 

But  if  the  Adversary  of  all  evil  1^ 

Showed  him  that  grace,  weighing  the  high  effect 
That  was  to  spring  from  him,  the  Who  and  What, 

It  seems  not  to  a  man  of  mind  unmeet ;  ^^ 

For  in  the  empyrean  he  was  chosen 
Father  of  fostering  Rome  and  of  her  rule ; 


6  THE  DIVINE  COMEDY 

And  both  of  these,  if  I  shall  speak  the  truth,  22 

Were  then  established  for  the  holy  place, 

Where  sits  the  greatest  Peter's  follower. 
Through  going  thus,  for  which  thou  laudest  him,  25 

He  heard  the  things,  which  of  his  victory 

And  of  the  papal  mantle  were  the  cause. 
Thither  went  afterwards  the  Chosen  Vessel  28 

That  he  might  bring  thence  comfort  for  that  faith 

Which  is  the  entrance  to  salvation's  way. 
But  I,  why  should  I  go  ?  or  who  concedes  ?  31 

Aeneas  I  am  not,  nor  am  I  Paul ; 

For  that,  nor  I  nor  others  deem  me  worthy. 
Wherefore,  if  I  should  yield  myself  to  go,  34 

To  go,  I  fear,  were  folly ;  thou  art  wise ; 

Thou  understandest  better  than  I  speak.'* 
And  like  to  one,  who  unwills  what  he  willed,  37 

And  for  new  thoughts,  changes  his  purpose  so, 

That  he  leaves  wholly  what  he  had  begun. 
Such  I  became  on  that  dark  slope,  because  ^0 

Reflecting,  I  had  left  the  enterprise, 

Which  was  so  quickly  entered  on  at  first. 
**If  I  have  rightly  understood  thy  words,"  43 

Answered  the  shade  of  the  Magnanimous, 

*  *  Thy  soul  has  been  attacked  by  cowardice. 
Which  oftentimes  will  so  encumber  men,  46 

It  turns  them  back  from  honorable  deeds, 

As  falsely  seeing  does  a  beast  which  shies. 
That  thou  mayst  free  thee  from  that  fear,  I  now  4^ 

Will  tell  thee  why  I  came,  and  what  I  heard 

At  the  first  moment  when  I  grieved  for  thee. 
I  was  among  those  who  are  in  suspense,  ^^  52 

And  One,  blessed  and  beautiful,  called  me; 

And  she  was  such,  I  begged  her  to  command. 
Her  eyes  were  gleaming  brighter  than  the  star ;  55 


INFERNO,  II  7 

She,  in  a  language  sweet  and  low,  began 

With  an  angelic  voice  to  speak  to  me : 
*  0  courteous  Mantuan  soul,  of  whom  the  fame  ^8 

Still  in  the  world  endures,  and  shall  endure 

So  long  as  motion  lasts,  my  friend,  but  not 
A  friend  of  P^'ortune  's,  on  the  desert  slope  ^1 

Is  so  impeded  in  his  journeying. 

That  in  his  terror  he  has  turned  about; 
I  fear  lest  he  have  strayed  so  far  already,  6* 

That  I  am  late  in  rising  to  his  help. 

By  that  which  I  have  heard  of  him  in  heaven. 
Now  do  thou  go,  and  with  thine  ornate  speech,  67 

And  with  whate'er  behoves  for  his  release. 

Give  him  such  aid  that  I  may  be  consoled. 
For  I  am  Beatrice,  who  bid  thee  go;  70 

I  left  a  place  whither  I  would  return ; 

Love  moved  me,  and  now  makes  me  speak  to  thee. 
When  I  am  once  again  before  my  Lord  73 

Thy  praise  shall  often  be  upon  my  lips.' 

Then  she  stood  silent,  and  I  made  reply : 
'Lady  of  virtue,  thou  through  whom  alone  76 

The  human  race  exceeds  all  else  contained 

Within  that  heaven  which  has  the  smallest  circles. 
So  great  my  pleasure  is  if  thou  command,  79 

Had  I  obeyed  already,  it  were  late ; 

No  further  needest  thou  disclose  thy  will. 
But  tell  me,  pray,  why  thou  hast  not  forborne  82 

Descending  to  this  centre  from  the  heights 

Of  space,  whither  thou  burnest  to  return. ' 
'  Since  thou  desir  'st  to  know  so  inwardly,  85 

Briefly  will  I  relate, '  she  answered  me, 

'Why  I  fear  not  to  come  within  this  place. 
Only  of  those  things  should  one  be  in  fear,  88 

Which  have  a  power  to  inflict  some  harm, 


8  THE  DIVINE  COMEDY 

Of  others  not,  for  they  make  not  afraid. 
Such  by  the  grace  of  God  have  I  been  made,  *1 

That  by  your  misery  I  am  not  touched, 

Nor  by  this  burning  flame  am  I  assailed. 
A  gentle  Lady  is  in  heaven,  who  feels  94 

Such  pity  of  the  hindrance,  unto  which 

I  send  thee,  that  stern  judgment  on  high  breaks. 
She  bade  Lucia  come  in  her  request,  97 

And  said :  '  *  Thy  faithful  one  has  present  need 

Of  thee,  and  I  commend  him  to  thy  care. '  * 
Lucia,  foe  of  every  cruelty,  100 

Then  moved,  and  came  to  that  place  where  I  was, 

Seated  by  Rachel  of  the  ancient  time, 
And  said:  ''0  Beatrice,  true  praise  of  God,  103 

Why  aidest  thou  not  him  who  loved  thee  so, 

And  left  the  common  multitude  for  thee? 
Hearest  thou  not  the  pity  of  his  plaint?  106 

Seest  thou  not  the  death  combatting  him 

Upon  the  river,  o'er  which  the  sea  boasts  not?" 
Never  were  persons  in  the  world  so  swift  109 

To  work  for  their  own  good,  or  fly  their  harm. 

As  I,  after  the  speaking  of  these  words. 
To  come  down  hither  from  my  blessed  seat,  112 

Confiding  in  thy  noble  speech,  which  brings 

Honor  to  thee  and  to  all  those  who  hear.  * 
When  she  had  ended  thus  her  words  to  me,  115 

She  turned  away  her  gleaming  eyes  in  tears. 

Wherefore  I  hastened  yet  the  more  to  come; 
And  thus  I  came  to  thee  as  she  desired,  118 

And  took  thee  from  before  that  savage  beast 

Obstructing  the  fair  mountain 's  short  ascent. 
What  is  it,  then?    Why  art  thou  halting ?    Why?  121 

Why  in  thy  heart  harbor  such  cowardice  ? 

Why  hast  thou  not  a  spirit  bold  and  free, 

%r 


INFERNO,  III  9 

Since  three  such  blessed  ladies  care  for  thee  124 

Within  the  court  of  heaven,  and  my  words 

Are  pledges  to  thee  of  so  great  a  good?" 
E  'en  as  the  flowerets  in  the  chilly  night  127 

Droop  closed,  but  when  the  sun  shines  white  on  them 

Raise  up  their  heads,  all  open  on  their  stalks ; 
Such,  from  my  broken  courage,  I  became,  130 

And  such  good  daring  hastened  to  my  heart, 

That  I  began  to  speak  like  one  set  free : 
' '  How  full  of  pity  she  who  succored  me !  133 

How  courteous  thou,  who  wert  so  swift  to  heed 

The  words  of  truth  that  she  made  known  to  thee ! 
Thou  hast  disposed  my  heart  with  such  desire  136 

Of  following  after  thee  by  these  thy  words, 

I  have  returned  unto  my  first  intent. 
Now  lead  thou  onward ;  one  sole  will  is  ours,  139 

My  Guide,  my  Lord,  my  Master  thou  alone/' 

Thus  had  I  spoken,  and  he,  moving  on, 
I  entered  on  the  deep  and  savage  way.  142 


CANTO  III 

Through  me  ye  go  to  the  abode  of  woe  ; 

Through  me  ye  go  to  the  eternal  pain  ; 

Through  me  ye  go  to  be  among  the  lost. 
His  Justice  moved  my  lofty  Maker  ^s  will,  4 

And  He,  who  made  me,  is  the  Power  Divine, 

The  Highest  "Wisdom,  and  the  Primal  Love. 
Before  I  was  were  no  created  things,  7 

But  the  eternal  ;  I  eternal  stand  ; 

Leave  every  hope  behind,  ye  who  go  in. 
These  words,  of  color  indistinct  and  dark,  10 

I  saw  there  written  high  upon  a  Gate; 


■^i*ir 


10  THE  DIVINE  COMEDY 

** Master,"  said  I,  ''their  sense  is  hard  to  me.'* 
And  he,  as  one  discerning  clearly,  said :  13 

''Here  it  behoves  us  leave  behind  all  fear, 

All  cowardice  must  die ;  for  we  are  come 
Unto  the  place  of  which  I  said  to  thee,  ^^ 

That  thou  shouldst  there  behold  the  wretched  souls. 

By  whom  the  Good  of  knowledge  has  been  lost." 
And  after  he  had  laid  his  hand  on  mine,  19 

With  cheerful  look,  which  comforted  my  heart. 

He  brought  me  in  unto  the  secret  things. 
Here  sighings  and  lamentings  and  deep  cries  22 

Of  pain  resounded  through  the  starless  air. 

Whereat  my  tears  began  to  flow  at  first. 
Strange  tongues  and  speeches  horrible,  the  words  25 

Of  suffering,  accents  of  rage,  and  voices 

Both  deep  and  hoarse,  and  with  them  sounds  of  hands. 
United  in  a  tumult,  whirling  on  28 

Forever  through  that  air  of  timeless  gloom,    \ 

Like  sand  borne  onward  by  the  circling  wind. 
And  I,  whose  head  was  girt  with  horror,  said :  31 

* '  My  Master,  what  is  that  I  hear,  and  who 

Are  they  that  seem  so  overcome  with  pain  ?  * ' 
And  he  to  me :  *  *  This  mode  of  misery  34 

Is  followed  by  the  wretched  souls  of  those, 

Who  lived  with  neither  infamy  nor  praise. 
For  they  are  mingled  with  that  caitiff  choir  37 

Of  angels,  who  were  not  rebellious,  nor 

Were  faithful  unto  God,  but  were  for  self. 
The  heavens  expelled  them  so  as  not  to  be  ^ 

Less  fair ;  the  depths  of  hell  receive  them  not, 

Because  the  damned  would  make  of  them  their  boast." 
And  I :  "Master,  what  grief  have  they  so  great,  *3 

That  leads  them  to  lament  so  bitterly?" 

He  answered:  **I  will  tell  thee  in  few  words. 


INFERNO,  III  11 


49 


These  have  no  hope  of  death,  and  their  blind  lives  46 

Are  so  debased,  that  they  are  envious 

Of  every  other  lot.    The  world  forbids 
That  any  fame  of  them  should  ever  be ; 

Mercy  and  Justice  hold  them  in  disdain, 

Let  us  not  speak  of  them ;  but  look,  and  pass. ' ' 
And  I  beheld  a  banner  as  I  looked,  52 

Which  moved  so  quickly  in  its  whirling  course. 

That  it  appeared  to  me  to  spurn  all  rest ; 
And  after  it  there  came  a  train  of  folk  55 

So  long,  that  I  could  never  have  believed 

Death  had  undone  so  great  a  multitude ; 
And  when  I  had  made  out  one  here,  Qne  there,  58 

I  saw  and  knew  the  shade  of  him  who  made 

The  great  refusal  through  his  cowardice. 
Instantly  then  I  knew  with  certainty  61 

That  these  were  of  the  sect  of  caitiff  souls. 

Displeasing  both  to  God  and  to  His  foes. 
These  wretches,  who  had  never  been  alive,  ^4 

Were  naked,  and  werestung  unceasingly 

By  wasps  and  by  the  gadflies  that  were  there, 
And  these  had  made  their  faces  stream  with  blood,  67 

Which,  mingled  with  their  tears,  fell  to  their  feet, 

And  there  was  gathered  up  by  loathsome  worms. 
When  next  I  set  myself  to  look  beyond,  T'O 

I  saw  a  folk  on  a  great  river's  bank; 

Wherefore  I  said :  ' '  My  Master,  grant  me  now 
To  know  these,  who  they  are,  and  what  the  law  '^3 

That  makes  them  show  such  eagerness  to  cross. 

As  through  the  faint  light  I  can  now  discern." 
And  he  to  me :  ' '  These  things  shall  be  made  known  76 

When  we  ourselves  have  come  to  stay  our  steps 

Upon  the  dismal  shores  of  Acheron.'' 
Then  with  ashamed  and  downcast  eyes,  in  fear  79 


12  THE  DIVINE  COMEDY 

Lest  words  of  mine  were  burdensome  to  him, 

I  kept  from  speaking  till  we  reached  the  stream. 
And  lo !  toward  us  coming  in  a  boat,  82 

An  old  man  with  the  whitened  hair  of  age. 

And  crying :  ' '  Woe  to  you,  ye  souls  depraved ! 
Hope  not  to  ever  see  the  sky  again;  85 

I  come  to  take  you  to  the  other  shore, 

Into  eternal  darkness,  heat  and  cold. 
And  thou,  who  standest  there,  thou  living  soul,  88 

Depart  from  these,  the  dead. ' '    But  when  he  saw 

That  I  departed  not,  he  said  to  me : 
*  *  Along  another  way,  by  other  ports  ^1 

Shalt  thou  come  to  the  shore,  not  here,  to  pass; 

A  lighter  boat  than  mine  must  carry  thee. ' ' 
Then  said  my  Leader :  * '  Charon,  be  not  vexed,  ^^ 

It  is  so  willed  where  power  is  to  do 

That  which  is  willed ;  and  more  than  that  ask  not. ' ' 
Thereon  were  quieted  the  woolly  jaws  97 

Of  him  who  ferries  o'er  the  livid  marsh, 

And  who  around  his  e^es_hadwheelsof  flame. 
But  to  the  weary,  naked  souls  there  came  ^^ 

A  change  of  color,  and  a  chattering 

Of  teeth,  soon  as  they  heard  the  cruel  words. 
They  fell  to  blasphemy,  cursing  their  God,  ^03 

Their  parents,  the  whole  race ;  the  place  and  time 

And  seed  of  their  begetting  and  their  birth; 
And  afterwards  they  all  together  moved  1^ 

With  loud  lamenting  to  the  evil  bank 

Awaiting  every  man  who  fears  not  God. 
Charon,  the  ]2emonjiJLlJlfi.blazin£_gxes,  1^ 

Now  beckoning  to  them  collects  them  all, 

And  whosoe  'er  delays  smites  with  his  oar. 
As  in  the  end  of  autumn  drop  the  leavesl  112 

One  following  the  other,  till  at  laat    J 


INFERNO,  IV  13 

The  branch  sees  all  its  spoils  upon  the  ground^J 
In  such  wise  did  the  evil  seed  of  Adam  115 

Cast  themselves  down  from  that  shore,  one  by  one. 

At  signals,  as  the  bird  at  his  recall. 
So  they  departed  over  the  brown  waves,  118 

And  ere  they  disembarked  on  yonder  strand, 

A  new  throng  had  assembled  on  this  side. 
*  *  My  son, ' '  the  courteous  Master  said  to  me,  121 

''All  those  who  perish  in  the  wrath  of  God 

Come  here  together  out  of  every  land. 
And  they  are  prompt  to  pass  the  stream,  because  124 

Justice  divine  so  spurs  them  on,  that  fear  \ 

Has  been  transformed  in  them  into  desire. l 
No  good  soul  ever  passes  by  this  way ;  127 

And  so,  if  Charon  frets  because  of  thee, 

"Well  mayst  thou  know  what  his  speech  signifies. ' ' 
When  he  had  ceased  to  speak,  the  dusky  plain  13 • 

Trembled  so  violently,  that  the  thought 

Of  such  a  terror  bathes  me  now  with  sweat. 
The  tearful  land  gave  forth  a  wind,  which  flashed,  1^3 

As  does  the  lightning,  with  vermilion  light. 

That  overcame  my  senses  utterly ; 
And  I,  like  one  whom  slumber  seizes,  fell.  136 


CANTO  IV 

The  deep  sleep  in  my  head  was  broken  off 
By  heavy  thundering,  so  that  I  roused 
Myself  like  one  who  has  been  waked  by  force 

And  risen  erect  I  cast  around  my  eye 
Now  rested,  and  gazed  fixedly  to  learn 
The  place  in  which  I  was ;  and  verily 

I  found  that  I  was  standing  on  the  brink 


14  THE  DIVINE  COMEDY 

Above  the  woful  vale  of  the  abyss, 

"Which  gathers  into  thunder  endless  wailings. 
So  dark  and  deep  and  full  of  clouds  it  was  10 

That  though  my  steadfast  glances  searched  the  depth 

I  could  not  there  distinguish  anything. 
*  *  Descend  we  now  to  the  blind  world  below,  *  *  13 

The  Poet,  pjlejs_death,  began  to  say, 

*  *  I  will  be  first,  and  thou  shalt  follow  me.  * ' 
And  I,  who  had  observed  his  color,  said :  1^ 

* '  But  how  shall  I  come,  if  thou  art  afraid, 

Who  art  my  wonted  comfort  in  my  doubt?'* 
And  he  to  me :  ' '  The  anguish  of  the  folk  1® 

Who  are  below,  has  painted  on  my  face 

The  pity  which  thou  deemest  to  be  fear. 
Let  us  go  on ;  the  long  way  urges  us. ' '  22 

So  he  advanced,  and  so  made  me  go  in 

To  the  first  circle  girding  the  abyss. 
As  I  was  listening  I  heard  no  sound  25 

Of  lamentation  there,  save  only  sighs, 

Which  caused  a  tremor  in  the  eternal  air ; 
This  came  from  those  not  tortured,  but  in  grief,  28 

The  crowds  that  were  so  many  and  so  great 

Of  infants  and  of  women  and  of  men. 
Then  the  good  Master  said : '  *  Thou  askest  not  31 

Who  are  the  spirits  that  thou  seest  here  1 

I  would  that  thou  shouldst  know,  ere  thou  go  on, 
That  they  sinned  not;  but  that  they  have  deserts  34 

Suffices  not,  for  they  were  not  baptized. 

Which  is  a  part  oF~Ehat  faith  thon  3ost  hold. 
And  if  they  were  before  Christianity,  37 

They  did  not  pay  due  worship  unto  God ; 

Numbered  with  such  as  these  am  I  myself. 
For  such  defects,  and  not  for  other  guilt,  *0 

Are  we  among  the  lost,  afflicted  solely 


INFERNO,  IV  15 

In  that  we  live  in  longing  without  hope/' 
When  I  had  heard  this,  great  woe  seized  my  heart,  43 

Because  I  knew  that  people  of  great  worth 

Were  there  within  that  Limbo  in  suspense. 
* '  Tell  me,  my  Master,  tell  me.  Lord, ' '  said  I,  46 

Desirous  of  assurance  in  that  faith. 

Which  conquers  every  error,  * '  has  it  been. 
That  ever  one  went  hence  by  his  desert,  49 

Or  by  another's,  and  was  later  blessed?" 

And  he,  who  understood  my  covert  speech. 
Replied :  * '  I  was  but  new  in  this  estate,  52 

When  I  saw  come  to  us  a  Mighty  One, 

Wearing  a  crown  in  sign  of  victory. 
He  drew  from  here  the  shade  of  our  first  parent,  55 

Of  his  son  Abel,  and  of  Noah;  of  Moses, 

The  Giver  of  the  Law,  the  obedient; 
The  patriarch  Abraham ;  David,  the  King ;  58 

Israel  with  his  father,  and  his  sons. 

And  Rachel,  for  whose  sake  he  did  so  much ; 
And  many  others ;  and  He  made  them  blessed ;  61 

And  I  would  have  thee  know  that  ere  their  day 

No  human  spirits  ever  had  been  saved. ' ' 
We  had  not  ceased  to  go  because  he  spoke,  64 

But  kept  on  through  the  forest  all  the  while. 

The  forest,  say  I,  of  the  crowded  spirits. 
Our  way  had  not  yet  led  us  far  beyond  67 

Where  I  had  slept,  when  I  beheld  a  fire 

Which  overcame  a  hemisphere  of  darkness. 
We  were  a  little  distance  from  it  yet,  70 

Though  not  so  far  but  I  discerned  in  part. 

That  honorable  people  held  that  place. 
*  *  0  thou,  who  dost  such  honor  both  to  art  73 

And  science,  who  are  these  so  honored  here, 

That  it  divides  them  from  the  others '  state  ? ' ' 


16  THE  DIVINE  COMEDY 

And  he :  *  *  The  honorable  fame  of  these,  76 

Which  in  thy  life  above  resounds  abroad, 

Wins  heaven's  favor,  that  advances  them/' 
At  the  same  time  a  voice  was  heard  by  me :  79 

''Honor  the  highest  Poet,  for  his  shade. 

That  had  departed  from  us,  now  returns/* 
And  when  the  voice  to  silence  died  away,  82 

I  saw  four  mighty  shades  draw  on  towards  us, 

Their  semblance  neither  that  of  grief  nor  joy. 
Then  the  good  Master  thus  began  to  speak :  85 

''Note  thou  the  one  with  that  sword  in  his  hand, 

Who  comes  before  the  three  as  if  their  lord ; 
That  one  is  Homer,  poet  sovereign,  88 

The  second  there  Horace  the  satirist ; 

Ovid  is  third,  and  Lucan  is  the  last. 
Because  each  one  shares  with  me  in  the  name,  ^1 

Which  by  the  single  voice  was  heralded, 

They  do  me  honor,  and  therein  do  well.'* 
Thus  saw  I  come  together  the  fair  school  ^ 

Of  these,  the  masters  of  the  loftiest  song. 

That  soars  with  eagle-flight  above  the  rest. 
When  they  together  had  conversed  a  while,  97 

They  turned  to  me  with  sign  of  salutation ; 

And  he  who  was  my  Master  smiled  thereat. 
They  paid  me  a  far  greater  honor  still,  100 

In  that  they  made  me  of  their  company, 

And  I  among  such  wisdom  was  a  sixth. 
Thus  we  passed  on  within  the  light,  with  talk  108 

Of  things,  which  silence  here  becomes  as  well 

As  utterance  did  there  where  we  conversed. 
We  came  unto  a  noble  castle 's  base,  106 

Encircled  seven  times  with  lofty  walls. 

Defended  round  with  a  fair  rivulet. 
And  this  we  passed  as  though  'twere  solid  ground ;  109 


INFERNO,  IV  17 

Through  seven  gates  I  entered  with  these  sages, 

And  came  upon  a  meadow  fresh  and  green. 
People  with  slow  and  earnest  eyes  were  there,  112 

Having  the  look  of  great  authority; 

They  spoke  but  seldom,  and  with  gentle  voices. 
Withdrawing  thus  toward  one  side  we  came  115 

Into  an  open,  luminous,  high  place, 

"Where  every  one  was  plainly  visible. 
Upon  the  green  enamel  there  in  front  118 

Were  pointed  out  to  me  the  mighty  spirits, 

Whom  but  to  have  seen  I  magnify  myself. 
I  saw  Electra  with  companions  many,  121 

Among  whom  I  knew  Hector  and  Aeneas ; 

Caesar  in  armor,  with  his  falcon  eyes; 
Penthisilea  with  Camilla  joined,  124 

And  King  Latinus  on  the  other  hand. 

By  whom  Lavinia,  his  daughter,  sat. 
I  saw  that  Brutus  who  drove  Tarquin  forth,  127 

Lucretia,  Julia,  Marcia,  and  Cornelia; 

And  at  one  side,  alone,  the  Saladin. 
When  I  had  raised  my  brows  a  little  more,  130 

I  saw  the  Master  of  the  Knowing  seated 

Among  his  philosophic  family. 
All  eyes  are  on  him,  him  they  honor  all ;  133 

There  Socrates  and  Plato  I  beheld, 

Standing  before  the  others,  nearest  him; 
Democritus,  who  based  the  world  on  chance ;  136 

Diogenes,  Anaxagoras,  and  Thales, 

Empedocles,  Heraclitus,  and  Zeno; 
The  good  collector  of  the  qualities,  139 

Dioscorides,  I  mean ;  Orpheus,  TuUy, 

Livy,  and  Seneca,  the  moralist ; 
Euclid,  geometer,  and  Ptolemy,  142 

Hippocrates,  and  Avicenna,  Galen; 


18  THE  DIVINE  COMEDY 

Averrhoes,  who  the  great  Comment  made. 
I  cannot  here  make  record  of  them  all,  145 

Because  my  long  theme  so  impels  me  on, 

That  many  times  my  words  come  short  of  fact. 
The  six-fold  company  becomes  but  two ;  148 

Another  way  the  wise  Guide  leads  me  forth, 

Out  of  the  quiet  to  the  trembling  air ; 
And  I  have  reached  a  place  where  naught  gives  light.       151 


CANTO  V 

Prom  the  first  circle  I  descended  thus 

Down  to  the  second,  which  engirds  less  space, 
And  pain  the  more,  that  goads  to  cries  of  woe. 

There  Minos  stands  in  horrid  guise,  and  snarls ;  * 

Examining  the  sins  there  at  the  entrance, 
Judges,  and  sends  as  he  entwines  himself. 

I  mean,  that  when  the  ill-born  soul  has  come  7 

Before  him,  it  confesses  utterly; 
r    And  that  discriminator  of  its  sins, 

( Noting  what  place  in  hell  is  due  to  it,  10 

\    "Winds  round  himself  his  tail  so  many  times 

*  As  the  degrees  he  wills  it  be  put  down. 

Ever  before  him  stands  a  multitude ;  13 

Each  soul  in  turn  advances  to  its  doom. 
It  speaks  and  hears,  and  then  is  hurled  below. 

'*0  thou  that  to  the  wo ful  hostelry  16 

Art  come,*'  said  Minos  on  beholding  me, 
Suspending  the  discharge  of  his  great  oflfice, 

''Look  how  thou  enterest,  and  in  whom  thy  trust;  ^^ 

Let  not  the  wideness  of  the  way  delude  thee.*' 
''Why  criest  thou  too?"  my  Leader  said  to  him; 

"Hinder  him  not  upon  his  destined  way,  22 


INFERNO,  V  19 


For  it  is  so  decreed,  where  power  is 

To  do  that  which  is  willed ;  ask  thou  no  more. ' ' 
Now  are  beginning  to  be  heard  the  notes  25 

Of  those  who  suffer ;  now  I  have  advanced 

To  where  much  lamentation  strikes  my  ear. 
I  came  into  a  place  mute  of  all  light,  28 

W]]ich_bellows  like  thQ__pcea,n  in  a  storin 

When  it  is  beaten  by  contending  winds. 
The  infernal  hurricane,  which  never  rests,  31 

Carries  along  the  spirits  in  its  sweep ; 

")£Jlidiii^  and  buffeting,  it  vexes  them. 
When  they  are  come  in  presence  of  the  ruin,  34 

There  the  shrill  cries,  the  plaint  and  the  lament ; 

There  are  they  blasphemous  'gainst  Power  Divine. 
I  understood  how  to  a  punishment  37 

Like  this  the  carnal  sinners  are  condemned. 

Who  make  their  reason  subject  to  desire. 
As  by  their  wings  the  starlings  are  borne  on,  40 

When  comes  the  cold,  in  flocks  wide-spread  and  full, 

So  were  the  evil  spirits  by  that  blast ; 
This  way  and  that  it  sWeeps  them,  up  and  down ;  43 

They  are  not  comforted  by  any  hope 

Of  resting,  and  not  even  of  less  pain. 
And  as  the  cranes  go  singing  their  sad  lays,  46 

Making  themselves  a  long-drawn  line  in  air. 

So  I  saw  coming,  uttering  their  wails. 
Shades  borne  on  that  commotion  I  have  named ;  49 

Wherefore  I  said:  ''Master,  what  folk  are  these. 

To  whom  the  black  air  gives  such  chastisement  ? ' ' 
'  *  The  foremost  one  of  those,  concerning  whom  52 

Thou  fain  wouldst  learn, "  replied  he  then,  **  was  once 

An  Empress  over  many  languages. 
To  vice  of  carnal  sin  so  given  o  'er  55 

The  lustful  she  made  lawful  by  decree. 


20  THE  DIVINE  COMEDY 

To  take  away  the  blame  she  had  incurred. 
She  is  Semiramis,  of  whom  we  read  58 

That  she  succeeded  Ninus,  first  his  spouse ; 

She  held  the  land  which  now  the  Sultan  rules. 
The  other,  she  who  slew  herself  for  love,  ^^ 

With  the  ashes  of  Sichaeus  breaking  faith ; 

Next,  Cleopatra  the  voluptuous. 
And  there  is  Helen,  for  whose  sake  revolved  ^^ 

So  many  guilty  seasons ;  yonder  see 

The  great  Achilles,  whose  last  foe  was  love. 
See  Paris;  Tristan."    And  he  pointed  out  67 

More  than  a  thousand  shades,  calling  their  names. 

Whose  earthly  life  had  been  cut  off  by  love. 
When  I  had  heard  my  Teacher  name  to  me  70 

Those  dames  and  cavaliers  of  olden  time, 

J  felt  such  pitxJLwas-nigh  dismayed. 
And  I  began:  ''Poet,  I  fain  would  speak  73 

With  those  two  yonder,  who  go  side  by  side. 

And  seem  to  be  so  light  upon  the  wind." 
And  he  to  me :  * '  Thou  shalt  observe  when  they  76 

Draw  near  to  us ;  then  call  them  in  the  name 

Of  Love,  that  is  their  guide,  and  they  will  come." 
Soon  as  the  wind  had  bent  their  course  toward  us,  79 

I  lifted  up  my  voice :  ' '  0  weary  souls, 

Come  speak  with  us,  if  it  be  not  forbidden." 
As  doves,  when  summoned  by  their  longing,  fly  82 

On  open,  steady  wings  to  the  sweet  nest. 

Borne  onward  through  the  air  by  their  desire ; 
So  left  they  then  the  throng  where  Dido  was,  85 

And  came  to  us  through  the  malignant  air, 

So  powerful  was  my  affection's  call. 
'  *  0  living  creature,  gracious  and  benign,  88 

Who  art  now  journeying  through  this  black  air, 

Visiting  us  who  dyed  the  world  blood-red, 


INFERNO,  V  21 

Were  now  the  Universal  King  our  friend,  ^1 

We  both  would  pray  to  Him  to  grant  thee  peace, 

Because  thou  pitiest  our  wayward  ill. 
What  pleases  thee  to  hear,  and  what  to  speak,  94 

That  we  will  hear,  and  thereof  speak  to  you. 

While  yet  the  wind  is  hushed  for  us,  as  now. 
The  city,  wherein  I  was  born,  is  there  ^^ 

Beside  the  sea-shore,  where  the  Po  comes  down 

To  be  at  rest  with  all  his  followers. 
Love,  that  is  quick  to  catch  in  gentle  heart,  1^0 

Enamoured  this  one  of  the  comely  form 

Taken  from  me ;  the  manner  grieves  me  still. 
Love,  that  absolves  from  love  no  one  beloved,  1^^ 

Enamoured  me  so  deeply  of  his  charm. 

Thou  seest  even  now  it  leaves  me  not. 
Love  led  us  on  to  a  united  death ;  1^^ 

Caina  waits  for  him  who  quenched  our  life.*' 

These  were  the  words  that  came  to  us  from  them. 
No  sooner  heard  I  those  afflicted  souls,  109 

Than  I  bowed  down  my  face,  and  held  it  low 

So  long,  the  Poet  said:  ''What  thinkest  thouT' 
When  I  made  answer  I  began:  ''Alas!  1^2 

How  many  the  sweet  thoughts,  what  great  desire 

Led  on  these  souls  unto  the  wof ul  pass ! ' ' 
Thereon  I  turned  to  them  again  to  speak,  115 

And  said:  "Francesca,  what  thou  sufferest 

Afflicts  me  in  my  pity  even  to  tears. 
But  tell  me,  at  the  time  of  those  sweet  sighs,  US 

What  token  and  what  way  Love  granted  you, 

That  ye  did  know  the  dubious  desires?" 
And  she  to  me:  "There  is  no  greater  pain  121 

Than  to  remember  in  one 's  misery 

T]^e  happy  timeTaCTthat  thy  Teacher  knows. 
But  if  thou  cherishest  so  great  desire  124 


22  THE  DIVINE  COMEDY 

To  learn  what  was  the  first  root  of  our  love, 

That  I  will  tell,  as  one  who  tells  in  tears. 
One  day  we  had  been  reading  for  delight  127 

Of  Lancelot,  how  Love  had  urged  him  on; 

We  were  alone;  suspicion  had  we  none; 
And  more  than  once  that  reading  made  our  eyes  130 

To  meet,  and  changed  the  color  in  our  faces ; 

But  one  point  only  was  it  conquered  us: 
When  we  had  read  how  that  the  longed-for  smile  133 

Was  there  impressed  with  such  a  lover's  kiss. 

This  one,  who  nevermore  shall  be  disjoined 
From  me,  all  trembling,  kissed  me  on  the  mouth.  136 

X^^allehaut  was  the  book,  and  he  who  wrote  it; 

.That  day  we  read  in  it  no  further  on. '  * 
While  the  one  spirit  had  been  saying  this,  139 

The  other  wept  so  bitterly,  that  I, 

As  I  had  died,  for  very  pity  swooned ; 
And  fell,  as  falls  the  body  of  one  dead.  142 

CANTO  VI  ^_ 

When  next  my  mind  returned,  that  closed  itself 

Before  the  pity  of  the  kindred  pair 

Which  utterly  confounded  me  with  grief, 
New  tortures  and  new  tortured  souls  I  see  * 

Around  me,  whichsoever  way  I  move, 

Where'er  I  turn,  wherever  I  may  gaze. 
I  am  at  the  third  circle,  of  the  rain  7 

Unending,  baleful,  cold  and  burdensome, 

Whose  rule  and  quality  are  never  new. 
Great  hailstones,  water  dark  with  filth,  and  snow  10 

Pour  down  together  through  the  gloomy  air; 

The  earth  receiving  them  gives  forth  a  stench ; 
And  Cerberus,  a  cruel  and  strange  beast,  18 


INFERNO,  VI  23 

From  out  his  triple  throat  barks  like  a  dog 

Over  the  people  that  are  there  submerged. 
His  eyes  are  red,  his  beard  is  black  with  grease,  16 

His  belly  huge ;  his  paws  are  armed  with  nails ; 

He  claws  the  spirits,  bites  and  lacerates. 
Under  the  rain,  which  makes  them  howl  like  dogs,  19 

They  make  one  side  a  screen  to  shield  the  other ; 

And  often  the  unhallowed  wretches  turn. 
When  Cerberus  perceived  us, — the  great  worm, —  22 

Opening  his  mouths  he  showed  his  fangs  to  us. 

And  had  no  limb  that  he  held  steady  then. 
Thereupon  my  Leader  opened  wide  his  hands,  25 

Took  of  the  earth,  and  with  his  fists  both  full 

Cast  it  within  those  gullets  ravenous. 
As  is  the  dog  who  in  his  hunger  barks  28 

And  then  grows  quiet  when  he  bites  his  food, 

Intent  alone  on  struggling  to  devour  it. 
So  had  become  those  squalid  visages  31 

Of  Cerberus  the  demon,  thundering 

Over  the  souls  so  that  they  fain  were  deaf. 
We  walked  upon  the  veiy  shades,  laid  low  34 

Beneath  the  heavy  rain ;  our  feet  would  fall 

Upon  the  empty  semblance  of  their  forms. 
They  all  were  lying  on  the  ground,  save  one  37 

Who  raised  himself  and  sat  upright  as  soon 

As  he  observed  us  pass  in  front  of  him. 
*  *  0  thou  who  art  conducted  through  this  hell, ' '  40 

Said  he  to  me,  ' '  recall  me,  if  thou  canst ; 

For  thou  wast  made  ere  I  had  been  unmade. ' ' 
And  I  to  him :  ' '  The  anguish  that  thou  hast  43 

Perchance  has  put  thee  from  my  memory. 

So  that  it  seems  not  that  I  ever  saw  thee. 
But  tell  me  who  thou  art,  that  hast  been  given  46 

In  such  a  woful  place  such  punishment. 


24  THE  DIVINE  COMEDY 

Though  other  greater,  none  displeases  so. ' ' 
And  he  to  me :'  *  Thy  city,  now  so  full  49 

Of  envy  that  the  sack  is  running  over, 

Held  me  within  it  in  the  life  of  light. 
I  was  called  Ciacco  by  you,  citizens;  52 

And  for  the  damning  sin  of  gluttony, 

As  thou  dost  see,  I  languish  in  the  rain. 
And  I,  sad  soul,  am  not  alone  in  this,  55 

For  all  these  others  bear  like  penalty 

For  like  offence."    And  further  spoke  no  word. 
Then  made  I  answer :  ' '  Ciacco,  thy  distress  58 

So  weighs  upon  me  that  it  bids  me  weep. 

But  tell  me,  if  thou  know'st,  to  what  will  come 
The  citizens  of  the  divided  city ;  ^1 

If  one  of  them  be  just ;  tell  me  the  cause 

Why  by  such  discord  she  has  been  assailed.*' 
And  he  to  me :  *  *  After  long  quarreling  C4 

There  shall  be  bloodshed,  till  the  silvan  party 

Drives  forth  the  other  with  great  injury. 
And  afterwards  shall  come  this  party's  fall  ®7 

Within  three  suns,  and  that  one  shall  rise  up 

Through  that  one 's  power  who  temporizes  now. 
A  long  time  shall  it  carry  high  its  head,  70 

Keeping  the  other  under  heavy  loads, 

Howe'er  it  grieve  and  suffer  shame  thereby. 
Two  men  are  just  but  are  not  listened  to ;  73 

For  pride  and  envy,  joined  to  avarice 

Have  been  three  sparks  to  set  men's  hearts  on  fire.*' 
Here  brought  he  to  an  end  the  tearful  sound ;  76 

And  I :  *  *  I  fain  would  have  thee  teach  me  still, 

Bestowing  on  me  gift  of  further  speech. 
Farinata  and  Tegghiaio,  worthy  both,  79 

Jacopo  Rusticucci,  Arrigo,  Mosca, 

And  others  who  were  minded  to  do  good. 


INFERNO,  VI  25 

Tell  me  where  they  are,  let  me  know  of  them ;  82 

For  great  desire  constrains  me  now  to  learn 

If  heaven  soothe  or  hell  be  poisoning  them/' 
And  he :  ' '  They  are  among  the  blacker  souls ;  85 

A  different  sin  weights  them  to  lower  depths. 

If  thou  go  down  so  far,  there  thou  shalt  see  them. 
But  when  thou  art  again  in  the  sweet  world,  88 

I  pray,  bring  me  to  the  memory  of  men. 

More  I  say  not,  nor  more  will  answer  thee.'* 
His  forthright  gazing  eyes  he  rolled  asquint,  ^1 

Viewed  me  a  little  while ;  then  bowed  his  head, 

And  fell  with  it  in  blindness  like  the  rest. 
My  Leader  said :  "  No  more  shall  he  rise  up  94 

This  side  the  sound  of  the  angelic  trump. 

When  on  that  day  the  hostile  power  shall  come 
Each  one  shall  find  again  the  woful  tomb,  97 

Shall  take  again  his  flesh  and  wonted  shape. 

Shall  hear  what  thunders  on  f orevermore. ' ' 
Through  the  foul  mixture  of  the  shades  and  rain  100 

Were  we  thus  moving  forward  with  slow  steps. 

Touching  a  little  on  the  life  to  come. 
Wherefore  I  said :  ' '  Master,  these  torturings,  103 

Will  they  increase  when  the  great  doom  has  passed. 

Or  lessen,  or  perchance  burn  still  the  same  ? ' ' 
And  he  to  me :  *  *  Return  unto  thy  learning,  106 

Which  holds  that  as  a  thing  more  perfect  grows. 

It  grows  more  conscious  both  of  good  and  pain. 
And  so,  though  this  accursed  folk  advance  109 

To  true  perfection  never,  they  expect 

Thereafter  to  be  more  than  they  are  now. ' ' 
We  followed  by  that  road  our  circling  course,  112 

Saying  much  more,  which  I  do  not  recount. 

And  reached  the  point  where  the  descent  begins. 
There  found  we  Pluto,  the  great  enemy.  115 


26  THE  DIVINE  COMEDY 


CANTO  VII 

*  *  Pape  Satan,  pape  Satan,  aleppe ! ' ' 

"When  Pluto  thus  began  with  clucking  voice, 
That  gentle  Sage,  learned  in  everything, 

Said  for  my  comfort :  ' '  Suffer  not  thy  fear  4 

To  harm  thee,  for  whatever  power  he  have 
Shall  not  stay  thee  from  going  down  this  rock. ' ' 

Then  turned  he  him  around  to  that  puffed  face,  ^ 

And  said :  "  Be  silent,  thou  accursed  wolf ! 
Consume  thee  inwardly  with  thine  own  rage ! 

Not  without  cause  go  we  to  the  abyss ;  10 

It  is  so  willed  on  high  where  Michael 
Took  vengeance  of  the  proud  adultery.'^ 

Just  as  the  sails  all  swelled  out  with  the  wind  ^^ 

Fall  in  a  tangled  heap  when  falls  the  mast, 
So  fell  this  cruel  wild  beast  to  the  ground. 

To  the  fourth  hollow  we  descended  then,  16 

And  took  in  more  and  more  the  woful  slope 
Which  draws  within  its  sack  the  whole  world's  ill. 

Justice  of  God !  oh,  who  but  Thee  heaps  up  1^ 

The  sum  of  pains  and  travails  strange  I  saw ! 
Why  does  our  sin  so  make  us  waste  away  ? 

As  there  above  Charybdis  breaks  the  wave,  22 

Dashing  against  another  meeting  it. 
So  here  it  was  decreed  the  folk  should  dance. 

Here  saw  I  many  more  than  elsewhere  who  26 

Both  on  this  side  and  the  other  with  loud  howls, 
Were  rolling  forward  weights  by  push  of  chest. 

They  struck  against  each  other,  and  just  there  28 

Each  whirled  around,  and,  rolling  back,  would  cry : 
' '  Why  boldest  thou  ? "    '  *  Why  thro  west  thou  away  ?  * ' 

Thus  each  returned  along  the  gloomy  round  ^1 


INFERNO,  VII  27 

On  either  hand  to  the  point  opposite 

To  greet  each  other  with  their  shameful  cry; 
When  he  had  reached  it,  each  one  turned  anew  34 

Through  his  half  circle  to  the  other  joust. 

And  I,  whose  heart  was,  as  it  were,  transfixed, 
Exclaimed : ' '  My  Master,  now  make  plain  to  me  37 

"What  folk  this  is ;  and  if  these  all  were  priests. 

These  tonsured  ones  upon  our  left  hand  here. ' ' 
And  he :  "  These  all,  when  in  the  former  life,  40 

Looked  so  obliquely  with  the  mind,  that  they 

Made  no  expenditure  with  measure  due. 
Most  plainly  do  their  voices  bark  this  out,  43 

When  they  have  reached  the  two  points  of  the  circle, 

Where  they  are  by  the  converse  sin  repelled. 
Those  on  whose  heads  no  covering  is  of  hair  46 

Were  priests  and  popes  and  cardinals,  in  whom 

The  mastery  was  held  by  avarice. ' ' 
And  I :  ' '  Master,  among  such  folk  as  these  49 

There  must  be  some  whom  I  should  recognize. 

Who  suffered  the  defilement  of  these  sins.'' 
And  he  to  me :  "  Vain  thoughts  thou  harborest ;  52 

The  undiscerning  life,  which  made  them  sordid. 

Makes  them  obscure  to  all  discerning  now. 
Forever  shall  they  come  to  these  two  buttings ;  55 

These  shall  come  forth  from  out  their  sepulchres  [close. 

With  fists  clenched  tight,  and  those  with  hair  cropped 
U-giving  and  ill-keeping  took  from  them  58 

The  fair  world's  use,  and  set  them  here  in  strife 

Of  such  a  sort  no  words  of  mine  shall  grace. 
Now  seest  thou,  son,  how  brief  the  mockery  61 

Of  goods  committed  unto  Fortune's  care. 

For  which  mankind  buffet  each  other  so. 
For  all  the  gold  that  is  beneath  the  moon,  64 

Or  ever  was,  would  not  have  power  to  give 


\ 


28  THE  DIVINE  COMEDY 

Repose  to  one  of  all  these  weary  souls." 
'  *  Master, ' '  said  I  to  him,  ' '  now  tell  me,  too :  ^7 

This  Fortune,  which  thou  speak 'st  of,  what  is  it, 

Which  holds  the  world's  goods  in  its  clutches  so?" 
And  he  to  me :  *  *  0  foolish  creatures,  ye !  ^^ 

How  great  the  ignorance  that  works  your  harm ! 

I  pray,  my  judgment  of  her  now  take  in. 
That  One,  of  knowledge  all  transcendent,  made  ^^ 

The  heavens,  and  appointed  them  their  guides, 

So  that  each  part  on  every  other  shines, 
Dispensing  equally  the  light  abroad.  ^^ 

Likewise,  above  the  splendors  of  the  world 

He  set  a  general  minister  and  guide. 
Who  should  betimes  transfer  this  empty  wealth  ^^ 

From  race  to  race  and  from  this  stock  to  that, 

Above  prohibiting  by  human  thought. 
Hence  one  race  rules,  another  languishes.  S2 

Both  in  obedience  to  her  decree. 

Which  is  concealed,  as  in  the  grass  the  snake. 
Your  knowledge  has  no  power  to  stop  her  course;  ^^ 

Foreseeing,  she  decrees  and  executes 

Her  kingdom 's  laws,  as  theirs  the  other  gods.   . 
Her  permutations  know  no  time  of  truce ;  ®® 

Necessity  compels  her  to  be  swift, 

So  often  comes  one  who  shall  know  a  change. 
And  this  is  she  who  is  so  crucified,  ^^ 

Even  by  those  who  ought  to  give  her  praise, 

But  give  her  blame  amiss  and  ill  report. 
But  her  estate  is  bliss ;  she  hears  it  not.  ^ 

Happy  among  the  other  primal  creatures, 

She  turns  her  sphere  and  joys  in  blissful  life. 
But  let  us  now  descend  to  greater  woe.  ^^ 

Each  star  that  upward  moved  when  I  went  forth 

Is  falling  now;  to  linger  is  forbidden." 


INFERNO,  VII  29 

"We  crossed  the  circle  to  the  other  bank,  ^00 

Above  a  boiling  spring,  which  overflows 

DoA^Ti  through  a  cleft  that  has  beginning  there. 
The  stream  was  darker  far  than  any  perse;  l^^ 

And  we  accompanied  the  dusky  waves, 

Now  entering  a  downward  pathway  strange. 
A  marsh,  that  bears  the  name  of  Styx,  it  forms,  106 

This  cheerless  rivulet,  when  it  has  reached 

The  foot  of  these  malignant,  grayish  slopes. 
And  I,  who  stood  intently  looking  down,  109 

Saw  people  there  bemired  in  that  slough. 

All  naked,  and  in  semblance  sorely  vexed. 
They  struck  each  other,  not  alone  with  hands,  112 

But  with  the  head  and  breast  and  with  the  feet. 

And  maimed  each  other  piecemeal  with  their  teeth. 
Then  the  good  Master  said :  ''Son,  now  thou  viewest         n^ 

The  souls  of  those  whom  anger  overcame ; 

And  too,  I  will  that  thou  believe  this  truth, 
That  'neath  the  water  there  are  some  who  sigh,  118 

Making  the  water  bubble  at  the  top. 

As  the  eye  tells  thee,  wheresoe  'er  it  turn. 
Fixed  in  the  slime  they  say :  '  Sullen  were  we  121 

In  the  sweet  air  that's  gladdened  by  the  sun. 

Having  within  our  hearts  the  smoke  of  sloth ; 
Now  we  are  sullen  in  the  swarthy  mire. '  124 

This  hymn  they  gurgle  in  their  throats,  because 

With  perfect  words  they  can  not  utter  it. ' ' 
"We  passed  between  the  dry  bank  and  the  swamp  127 

Far  on  the  circle  of  the  filthy  fen, 

"With  eyes  turned  toward  those  gulping  down  the  mire. 
Until  at  last  we  stood  beneath  a  tower.  130 


30  THE  DIVINE  COMEDY 


CANTO  VIII 


I  SAY,  continuing,  that  long  before 

Our  coming  to  the  foot  of  that  high  tower, 

Our  glances  had  gone  upward  to  its  top, 
For  we  had  seen  two  flamelets  set  there,  while  * 

Another  sent  back  signal  from  so  far. 

The  eye  had  barely  power  to  take  it  in. 
Turned  to  the  sea  of  all  intelligence  7 

I  said :  ''What  does  this  say?  and  what  replies 

The  other  fire,  and  who  are  they  that  make  itf 
And  he  to  me :  "  Over  the  slimy  waves  10 

What  is  expected  thou  mayst  now  discern. 

If  the  marsh  vapor  hide  it  not  from  thee/' 
Never  did  bowstring  ^peed  its  arrow  forth  13 

That  it  flew  onward  through  the  air  so  swift, 

As  I  beheld  a  little  boat  come  on 
Across  the  water  toward  us  instantly  1* 

Under  the  guidance  of  a  single  boatman, 

Who  cried  aloud : ' '  Art  thou  now  come,  fell  soul  1 ' ' 
''Phlegyas,  Phlegyas,  thou  criest  all  in  vain  ^^ 

For  this  once, ' '  said  my  Lord.    ' '  Us  thou  shalt  hold 

No  longer  than  while  passing  o  'er  the  slough.  *  * 
Like  one  who  listens  to  some  great  deceit  22 

That  has  been  done  him,  and  resents  it  sore, 

Phlegyas  became  then  in  his  gathered  wrath. 
My  Guide  went  down  into  the  little  bark,  25 

And  after  him  then  made  me  enter  it, 

And  it  seemed  laden  first  when  I  was  in. 
Soon  as  the  Guide  and  I  were  in  the  boat  28 

The  ancient  prow  set  forth,  cleaving  the  water 

Deeper^ than  it  was  wont_with  other  annl^ 
When  over  the  dead  channel  we  were  speeding  81 


43 


46 


INFERNO,  VIII  31 

Before  us  rose  one  full  of  mire  and  said: 

''Now,  who  art  thou,  that  com'st  before  thy  time?" 

And  I  to  him:  ''Although  I  come,  I  stay  not;  34 

But  who  art  thou,  that  art  become  so  foul  ? ' ' 
' '  Thou  seest  I  am  one  of  those  who  weep. ' ' 

And  I  to  him : ' '  With  weeping  and  with  wailing,  37 

Accursed  spirit,  do  thou  still  remain ! 
For  thee  I  know,  although  thou  art  all  filth. ' ' 

Then  toward  the  boat  he  stretched  out  both  his  hands.        40 
"Wherefore  the  prudent  Master  thrust  him  back. 
Saying :  ' '  Away !    Down  with  the  other  dogs ! ' ' 

This  done,  around  my  neck  he  threw  his  arms. 
And  kissed  my  face,  and  said :  ' '  Disdainful  soul, 
Blessed  is  she  who  bore  thee  in  her  bosom ! 

That  one  was  arrogant  when  in  the  world; 
There  is  no  goodness  decks  his  memory, 
And  therefore  is  his  shade  so  furious  here. 

How  many  hold  themselves  up  there  to  be  49 

Great  kings,  who  shall  stand  here  like  swine  in  mire, 
Leaving  behind  them  horrible  dispraise ! ' ' 

And  I  to  him:  "Master,  greatly  should  I  52 

Rejoice  to  see  him  stifled  in  the  stew 
Before  the  time  when  we  shall  leave  the  lake.'' 

And  he  to  me :  "  Ere  the  shore  lets  itself  55 

Be  seen  by  thee,  thou  shalt  be  satisfied. 
'Tis  fitting  thou  have  joy  of  such  desire." 

Shortly  thereafter  I  beheld  him  torn  58 

In  such  a  manner  by  the  muddy  folk 
That  I  still  praise  and  thank  my  God  for  it. 

They  all  cried  out :  ' '  Have  at  Filippo  Argenti ! "  61 

At  that  the  spirit  of  the  Florentine 
In  rage  turned  on  himself  with  his  own  teeth. 

We  left  him  there ;  therefore  of  him  I  say  64 

No  more.    But  on  my  ears  there  smote  such  woe. 


32  THE  DIVINE  COMEDY 

I  opened  wide  my  eyes,  intent  ahead. 
Then  the  good  Master  said  to  me :  "  My  son,  67 

The  city  now  draws  near  whose  name  is  Dis, 

With  weighty  citizens,  with  great  array.'' 
And  I:  ** Already,  Master,  I  discern  70 

Its  mosques  distinctly  in  the  valley  yonder, 

Vermilion,  as  if  they  had  issued  forth 
From  fire. ' '    And  he  to  me :  * '  The  eternal  fire  78 

Enkindling  them  within  displays  them  red, 

As  thou  observest  in  this  nether  hell." 
We  came  at  length  within  the  fosses  deep  76 

Encompassing  that  land  disconsolate; 

Its  walls  appeared  to  me  to  be  of  iron. 
Not  without  making  a  wide  circuit  first  79 

Reached  we  a  place  where  with  loud  voice  the  boatman 

Cried  to  us :  *  *  Get  you  out !    Here  is  the  entrance. ' ' 
More  than  a  thousand  of  those  rained  from  heaven  82 

I  saw  above  the  gates,  who  angrily 

Exclaimed:  *'Who  is  that  one,  who  without  death 
Goes  through  the  kingdom  of  the  people  dead  T '  85 

And  then  the  Sage,  my  Master,  made  a  sign 

Of  wishing  to  speak  with  them  secretly. 
Repressing  somewhat  of  their  great  disdain,  88 

They  said :  '  *  Come  thou  alone !    Let  him  depart, 

Who  with  such  zeal  has  come  within  this  realm! 
Let  him  go  back  alone  by  the  mad_road !  •! 

Try,  if  he  can;  for  thou  shalt  here  remain. 

Who  hast  been  showing  him  so  dark  a  country." 
Think,  reader,  if  I  was  discomfited,  •* 

Hearing  the  sound  of  the  accursed  words; 

For  I  deemed  not  that  I  should  e'er  return. 
*'0  my  dear  Guide,  who  more  than  seven  times  ®7 

Hast  brought  me  back  to  safety  and  hast  drawn 

From  the  deep  peril  that  confronted  me, 


INFERNO,  VIII  33 

Leave  me  not  thus  undone,"  I  said;  ''and  should  100 

It  be  denied  us  to  go  further  on, 

Let  us  retrace  our  steps  together,  quickly.'* 
And  that  Lord,  who  had  led  me  thither,  said :  103 

*  *  Have  thou  no  fear ;  because  our  passage,  given 

By  Such  an  one,  no  one  may  take  from  us. 
But  here  await  me ;  and  the  weary  spirit  106 

Comfort  and  feed  with  good  expectancy ; 

I  wiU  not  leave  thee  in  the  nether  world/' 
Thus  goes  away  and  there  abandons  me  109 

The  gentle  Father,  and  I  stay  in  doubt. 

For  ''yes"  and  "no"  contend  within  my  head. 
I  could  not  hear  what  he  held  forth  to  them ;  112 

But  he  had  not  been  standing  with  them  long. 

When  each  in  emulation  ran  within. 
Then  these  our  adversaries  shut  the  gates  115 

Before  my  Lord 's  breast,  who  remained  without 

And  turned  him  back  to  me  with  footsteps  slow. 
His  eyes  were  fixed  upon  the  ground ;  his  brows  US 

"Were  shorn  of  boldness,  as  he,  sighing,  said : 

' '  Who  has  forbidden  me  the  abodes  of  woe  ? ' ' 
And  theiTto^EaeT^^ThDti^thoug^rTam  121 

Be  not  dismayed,  for  I  shall  bide  the  test, 

Whate  'er  they  go  about  within  to  stay  me ; 
For  this  their  overweening  is  not  new.  124 

They  used  it  once  at  a  less  secret  gate, 

Which  to  this  day  remains  without  a  bolt. 
Above  it  thou  didst  see  the  dead  inscription ;  127 

And  now  this  side  of  it  descends  the  steep. 

Passing  the  circles  unescorted,  One 
By  whom  the  land  shall  opened  be  to  us. ' '  130 


34  THE  DIVINE  COMEDY 


CANTO  IX 

That  color  which  faintheartedness  had  put 

Upon  my  face,  seeing  my  Guide  turn  back, 

Repressed  the  sooner  his  unwonted  hue. 
He  stopped  like  one  intently  listening ;  * 

Because  the  eye  could  not  conduct  him  far 

Through  the  black  air  and  through  the  heavy  mist. 
'  ^  ![tjnust  be,  though,  that  we  shall  win  the  fight/ ^  ^ 

Began  he, '  *  else  .  .  .  such  laid  was  offered  us. 

Oh,  how  I  long  to  have  Another  come!** 
I  plainly  saw  how  he  had  covered  up  10 

What  he  began  to  say  with  other  words 

That  followed  and  were  different  from  the  first. 
But  none  the  less  his  language  gave  me  fear,  13 

For  I  drew  out  the  interrupted  speech 

Perchance  to  a  worse  purport  than  he  meant. 
*1)own  to  this  depth  of  the  distressful  hollow  1^ 

Do  ever  any  come  from  that  first  grade. 

Whose  only  punishment  is  hope  cut  off  ?  *  * 
So  questioned  I,  and  thus  he  answered  me :  1® 

*' Rarely  it  comes  to  pass  that  one  of  us 

Goes  on  the  journey  which  I  now  am  making. 
Tis  true  that  I  was  conjured  hither  once  22 

By  that  Erichtho,  cruel  one,  who  used 

Unto  their  bodies  to  call  back  the  shades. 
My  flesh  had  been  but  short  time  bare  of  me  25 

When  she  forced  me  to  go  within  that  wall 

To  bring  a  spirit  of  Judas'  circle  thence. 
That  is  the  lowest  and  the  darkest  place  28 

And  farthest  from  the  heaven  that  turns  all ; 

Well  do  I  know  the  road;  so  be  at  rest.  [forth, 

This  marsh,  from  which  the  great  stench  is  breathed  ^l 


INFERNO,  IX  35 

Engirds  the  doleful  city  round  about, 

"Which  now  we  can  not  enter  without  anger. ' ' 
And  more  he  said,  which  I  have  not  in  mind;  34 

Because  my  eye  had  wholly  drawn  me  toward 

The  lofty  tower  with  the  glowing  top, 
Where  in  an  instant  risen  suddenly  .  37 

Were  threeinfemal  furies,  stained  with  Blood, 

Who  had  the  limbs  of  women  and  the  mien; 
And  they  were  girt  with  greenest  water-snakes ;        \       40 

Small  serpents  and  horned  snakes  had  they  for  hair,^ 

Wherewith  their  savage  brows  were  clasped  about. 
And  he,  who  well  did  know  the  maids  of  her,  43 

Of  never-ending  lamentation  Queen, 

Exclaimed:  ** Behold  the  fierce  Erinyes j_ 
They  are :  Megaera  at  the  left ;  upon  46 

The  right,  Alecto  weeping,  and  between 

The  two,  Tisiphone ; ' '  and  then  was  silent. 
Each  with  her  nails  made  gashes  in  her  breast ;  49 

Beat  themselves  with  their  palms,  and  shrieked  so  loud, 

That  I  drew  close  to  the  Poet  in  my  fear. 
*' Medusa,  come!    Turn  him  to  stone  will  we,"  52 

They  aU  were  crying,  looking  down.    '*  'Twas  ill 

We  failed  to  avenge  on  Theseus  his  assault.'' 
*'Turn  backward;  keep  thy  face  concealed,  for  if  55 

The  Gorgon  shows  herself  and  thou  see  her. 

No  more  returning  upward  would  there  be.'' 
So  said  the  Master ;  and  then  he  himself  58 

Turned  me  around,  nor  trusted  he  my  hands. 

But  with  his  own  besides  he  closed  my  eyes. 
0  ye  who  have  sound  intellects,  observe  61 

The  doctrine  that  is  here,  hiding  itself 

Beneath  the  veil  of  the  unwonted  verses ! 
And  now  was  coming  o  'er  the  turbid  waves  64 

The  crashing  of  a  sound,  full  of  affright, 


36  THE  DIVINE  COMEDY 

Wherewith  began  to  tremble  both  the  shores; 
Not  otherwise  than  that  made  by  a  wind,  ^7 

Impetuous  because  of  adverse  heats, 

Which  smites  the  forest,  and  with  naught  to  check, 
Shivers  the  branches,  beats  and  bears  them  off ;  70 

With  dust  before  it,  it  goes  on  superb. 

Making  the  wild  beasts  and  the  shepherds  flee. 
He  set  my  eyes  free,  saying :  * '  Now  direct  78 

The  nerve  of  sight  across  that  ancient  scum, 

Yonder  to  where  the  smoke  is  bitterest." 
As  frogs  before  their  enemy  the  snake  76 

All  scatter  through  the  water,  vanishing. 

Till  each  is  squatting  huddled  on  the  land; 
More  than  a  thousand  ruined  souls  I  saw  79 

Thus  fleeing  from  before  One,  who  on  foot 

Was  passing  over  Styx  with  soles  unwet. 
He  moved  aside  that  thick  air^from  his  face,  82 

Bringing  his  left  hand  oft  in  front  of  it. 

And  only  with  that  trouble  seemed  he  weary. 
Perceiving  that  he  was  a  Messenger  85 

From  heaven,  I  turned  to  the  Master,  who  made  sign 

That  I  stand  quiet  and  bow  down  to  him. 
Oh,  how  disdainful  he  appeared  to  me !  88 

He  came  to  the  gate,  and  with  a  little  wand 

He  opened  it ;  resistance  there  was  none. 
* '  Outcasts  of  heaven !    Thou  despised  folk !  * '  91 

Began  he  on  the  threshold  horrible, 

''Whence  is  this  overweening,  lodged  in  you? 
And  wherefore  do  ye  kick  against  that  will,  W 

Whose  end  there  is  no  power  can  mutilate, 

And  which  has  many  times  increased  your  painf 
What  steads  it  you  to  butt  against  the  Fates!  ^7 

Your  Cerberus,  if  ye  remember  well. 

Has  still  his  chin  and  throat  worn  bare  therefor. '* 


INFERNO,  IX  37 

Then  he  returned  along  the  filthy  way,  ^  100 

And  spoke  no  word  tojis,  but  had  the  mien 
Of  on^erwhom  other  care  constrains  and  pricl 

Than  that  of  him  who  is  before  his  face.  *  103 

And  then  we  moved  our  feet  toward  that  land. 
Free  from  our  care  after  those  holy  words; 

And  without  any  strife  we  entered  in,  106 

And  I,  who  was  desirous  to  behold 
The  state  of  things  in  such  a  fortress  locked, 

As  soon  as  I  was  in,  cast  my  eyes  round  109 

And  saw  on  every  hand  a  great  plain,  full 
Of  sorrow  and  of  torment  of  the  damned. 

E  'en  as  at  Aries,  beside  the  stagnant  Rhone,  112 

Or  as  at  Pola,  with  Quarnero  by. 
That  shuts  in  Italy  and  bathes  her  bounds. 

The  sepulchres  make  all  the  place  uneven ;  115 

So  did  they  here  on  every  side,  except 
That  here  the  manner  was  more  bitter  far. 

Because  among  the  tombs  were  scattered  flames,  US 

With  which  they  were  so  heated  through  and  through, 
That  iron  is  called  for  hotter  by  no  trade. 

All  of  their  lids  were  lifted  up ;  and  forth  121 

Such  grievous  lamentations  came  as  seemed 
In  truth  like  those  of  wretched  sufferers. 

And  I:  ''Master,  who  are  the  people  there,  124 

That  having  burial  within  those  chests 
Make  themselves  heard  with  sighing  in  such  pain  ? ' ' 

And  he  to  me : ' '  Here  the  arch-heretics  127 

Are  with  their  followers  of  every  sect ;  [laden. 

And  much  more  than  thou  deem'st  these  tombs  are 

Here  like  with  like  is  in  one  sepulchre ;  130 

The  monuments  are  heated  more  and  less. ' ' 
And,  turning  to  the  right  hand,  we  passed  on 

Betweenth^ormMits  and  high  battlements.  133 


eenth^ormgats  ai 


38  THE  DIVINE  COMEDY 


CANTO  X 

Now  goes  his  way,  along  a  secret  path. 

Between  the  torments  and  the  city  wall, 

My  Master,  and,  behind  his  shoulders,  I. 
**  Virtue  Supreme,  that  through  the  impious  rounds  * 

Dost  turn  me,''  I  began,  **as  pleases  thee, 

Speak  thou  to  me,  and  satisfy  my  wishes. 
The  people,  lying  in  the  sepulchres,  7 

Could  they  be  seen?    Already  all  the  lids 

Are  lifted  up,  and  no  one  is  on  guard." 
And  he  to  me :  * '  They  all  shall  be  locked  in  10 

When  from  Jehoshaphat  they  shall  return 

Here  with  the  bodies  they  have  left  above. 
On  this  side  have  their  place  of  burial  13 

With  Epicurus  all  his  followers, 

Who  hold  that  with  the  body  dies  the  soul. 
So,  to  the  question  thou  hast  put,  thou  shalt  1^ 

Have  present  satisfaction  here  within. 

And  also  to  the  wish  thou  utterest  not. ' ' 
And  I :  * '  Good  Leader,  I  keep  not  my  heart  1® 

Concealed  from  thee  save  thus  to  speak  but  little ; 

Nor  now  alone  hast  thou  thereto  disposed  me.'* 
**0  Tuscan,  who  with  speech  so  courteous  22 

Goest  through  the  city  of  the  fire,  alive, 

May  it  now  please  thee  at  this  place  to  halt. 
Thy  mode  of  speech  hath  manifested  thee  ^       *^ 

A  native  of  that  noble  fatherland. 

To  which,  perchance,  I  was  too  troublesome.*' 
All  on  a  sudden  had  this  sound  come  fortlT  28 

From  one  of  the  sepulchres;  wherefore  in  fear 

I  drew  a  little  closer  to  my  Leader. 
And  he  to  me :  "  Turn  thee  1    What  doest  thou  t  81 


INFERNO,  X 


See  Farinata,  who  has  raised  himself; 

From  the  waist  upward  wholly  shalt  thou  see  him.'* 
I  had  already  fixed  my  gaze  on  his;  34 

And  he  had  risen  erect  with  breast  and  brow, 

As  if  Hell  were  to  him  in  great  despite. 
And  then  the  Leader's  bold  and  ready  hands  37 

Pushed  me  among  the  sepulchres  to  him, 

Saying  to  me:  ''Be  all  thy  words  well  ordered!'' 
When  I  was  at  his  tomb,  close  by  the  foot,  40 

He  looked  at  me  a  while,  and  then,  as  'twere 

In  scorn,  he  asked:  "Who  were  thy  ancestors?" 
And  I,  who  was  desirous  to  obey,  43 

Hid  it  not  from  him,  but  disclosed  them  all. 

Whereon  he  lifted  up  his  brows  somewhat; 
Then  said :  ' '  Fiercely  were  they  adverse  to  me,  46 

To  my  forerunners,  to  my  partisans. 

So  that  I  twice  did  scatter  them  abroad. ' ' 
* '  Though  they  were  banished,  they  came  back  both  times    49 

From  every  quarter,"  I  replied  to  him; 

''But  your  men  have  not  rightly  learned  that  art." 
Then  close  by  him,  uncovered  to  the  view,  52 

Arose  a  shade  as  far  as  to  the  chin; 

I  think  that  it  had  risen  on  its  knees. 
It  looked  about  me,  as  if  it  desired  55 

To  see  if  there  were  with  me  some  one  else ; 

But  when  its  expectation  was  all  quenched. 
Weeping,  it  said :  "  If  thou  for  loftiness  58 

Of  genius  go  through  this  blind  prison,  then 

Where  is  my  son  ?    Why  is  he  not  with  thee  ? ' ' 
And  I  to  him :  "  I  go  not  of  myself.  61 

He,  who  waits  yonder,  guides  me  through  this  place ; 

Perchance  your  Guido  held  him  in  disdain." 
Already  had  his  words,  and,  too,  the  mode  64 

Of  punishment  read  this  one 's  name  to  me. 


40  THE  DIVINE  COMEDY 

And  therefore  had  my  answer  been  so  full. 
Uprising  suddenly,  he  cried  out :  *  *  How  ^7 

Saidst  thou,  he  held?    Is  he  not  living  still? 

Does  not  the  sweet  light  strike  upon  his  eyes?*' 
When  he  became  aware  of  some  delay  70 

I  made,  ere  I  replied,  backward  he  fell 

Supine,  and  then  no  more  appeared  outside. 
But  the  Magnanimous,  at  whose  desire  73 

I  had  here  stayed  my  steps,  changed  not  his  aspect, 

And  neither  moved  his  neck,  nor  bent  his  side. 
**And  if,*'  continuing  what  first  was  said,  76 

' '  They  haxfi^acquired  that  art, ' '  said  he,  '  *  but  ill, 

That  is  more  tormenTTo^me  than  this  bed. 
But  fifty  times  shall  not  be  re-enkindled  79 

The  countenance  of  her,  who  queens  it  here, 

Before  thou  learn  how  weighty  is  that  art.  ^ 
And^~as  thou  WTuI^t^ietum'to  that  sweet  world,  82 

Tell  me,  why  is  so  pitiless  that  people 

Against  my  kin  in  each  of  its  decrees?'* 
Wherefore  I  said  to  him:  ''The  havoc  wrought  86 

And  mighty  slaughter,  that  dyed  Arbia  red, 

Make  such  petitions  in  our  temple  rise. '  * 
When  thereupon  he,  sighing,  shook  his  head,  88 

** There  I  was  not  alone,"  he  said,  ''and,  surely, 

I  had  not  moved  with  the  others  without  cause. 
But  I  was  there  alone,  when  every  one  W 

Assented  Florence  should  be  blotted  out. 

And  I  defended  her  with  open  face." 
**AlasI    So  may  your  seed  sometime  find  rest,"  ^ 

Besought  I  him,  ' '  loosen  for  me  this  knot. 

By  which  my  judgment  has  been  here  en  wound. 
It  seems,  if  I  do  hear  aright,  that  ye  ^7 

Can  see  beforehand  what  the  times  shall  bring. 

And  in  the  present  have  another  way." 


INFERNO,  X  41 

''Like  him,  who  has  imperfect  sight,  we  see  100 

The  things  far  off,"  he  answered;  "so  much  light 
The  Sovereign  Ruler  still  doth  shed  on  us. 

When  they  draw  nigh,  or  are,  our  intellects  103 

Are  wholly  void,  and  if  none  other  come 
To  us,  nought  know  we  of  your  human  state. 

Hence  thou  canst  understand,  that  wholly  dead  106 

Will  be  our  knowledge  from  that  moment  when 
The  portal  of  ihe  future  shall  be  closed. ' ' 

As  in  compunction  for  my  fault,  I  said :  109 

' '  Then,  you  shall  say  now  to  that  fallen  one. 
His  son  is  with  the  living  still  conjoined. 

And  if,  before  I  answered,  I  was  dumb,  112 

Tell  him  that  I  was  so,  because  I  thought 
Already  on  the  error  you  have  solved." 

And  now  my  Master  was  recalling  me ;  115 

Wherefore,  in  greater  haste,  I  prayed  the  spirit 
That  he  would  tell  me  who  might  be  with  him. 

''With  more  than  a  thousand  lie  I  here,"  he  said;  118 

' '  The  second  Frederick,  and  the  Cardinal 
Are  here  within ;  I  speak  not  of  the  rest. ' ' 

Therewith  he  hid  himself;  and  I  toward  121 

i  The  ancient  Poet  turned  my  steps,  my  thoughts 

Upon  the  speech  that  seemed  to  bode  me  ill. 

He  started  on ;  and,  as  we  walked  along,  124 

I  He  said  to  me:  "Why  art  thou  so  perplexed?" 

And  I  contented  him  in  his  request. 

' '  Let  memory  hold  fast  what  thou  hast  heard  127 

Against  thyself, ' '  that  Sage  exhorted  me ; 
"And,"  raising  his  finger,  "now  give  heed  to  this: 

When  thou  shalt  be  in  the  sweet  radiance  130 

Of  that  one,  whose  fair  eyes  see  all,  from  her 
Thou  shalt  know  all  the  journey  of  thy  life." 

Then  to  the  left  he  bent  his  steps,  and  we,  133 


42  THE  DIVINE  COMEDY 

Leaving  the  wall,  went  onward  toward  the  middle 
Along  a  path  that  strikes  into  a  vale, 
Which  even  up  there  made  its  ill  smell  offend.  136 


CANTO  XI 

Upon  the  edge  of  a  high  precipice 

Formed  by  a  circle  of  great  broken  rocks. 
We  came  above  a  still  more  cruel  press; 

And  here,  by  reason  of  the  horrible  4 

Excess  of  stench  which  the  profound  abyss 
Throws  up,  we  made  approach  behind  the  lid 

Of  a  great  tomb,  on  which  I  saw  inscribed  7 

The  words:  ''Pope  Anastasius  I  hold. 
Whom  from  the  forthright  way  Photinus  drew." 

'*Our  going  down  must  needs  be  slow,  so  that  1^ 

Our  sense  may  first  become  somewhat  inured 
To  the  dismal  blast,  which  then  'twill  heed  no  more.  *  * 

So  spoke  the  Master;  and  I  said:  ''Find  thou  13 

Some  compensation,  that  the  time  pass  not 
Unused. ' '    And  he :  "  Know  that  I  think  of  that. 

My  son,  there  are  within  these  rocks,"  began  16 

He  then  to  say,  "three  circles  lessening 
From  grade  to  grade,  like  those  which  thou  dost  leave. 

They  are  all  full  of  spirits  of  the  damned ;  l^ 

But,  that  henceforth  sight  may  suffice  alone, 
Observe  both  how  and  why  they  are  confined. 

Of  all  the  wickedness  that  earns  the  hate  22 

Of  heaven,  the  end  is  injury ;  and  all 
Such  ends  by  force  grieve  others,  or  by  fraud. 

But  because  fraud  is  man's  peculiar  sin,  25 

It  more  displeases  God;  and  hence  are  lower 
The  fraudulent,  and  greater  woe  assails  them. 


INFERNO,  XI  43 

All  the  first  circle  holds  the  violent ;  28 

But,  since  against  three^ersonsTorce  is  used, 
It  is  constructed  in  three  separate  rounds. 

Force  may  be  used  against  one 's  God,  one 's  self,  31 

One 's  neighbors ;  agaihsOEem,  I  say,  orlthings 
Of  theirs,  as  thou  shalt  hear  with  plain  discourse. 

By  force  is  death  inflicted  on  one's  neighbor,  34 

And  painful  wounds;  and  on  his  property 
Euin,  burning,  and  harmful  plundering; 

Hence  murderers,  those  who  deal  evil  blows,  37 

Those  who  lay  waste  and  rob,  in  various  troops 
Are  all  tormented  here  in  this  first  round. 

Violent  hands  a  man  may  lay  upon  40 

Himself  and  his  possessions;  hence  it  comes 
That  in  the  second  round  in  vain  repents 

Each  one  who  of  your  world  deprives  himself,  43 

Gambles  away  and  dissipates  his  goods. 
And  there  goes  weeping  where  he  should  rejoice. 

Force  may  be  used  against  the  Deity,  46 

By  a  heart's  denying  and  blaspheming  Him, 
And  deeming  Nature  and  God's  bounty  naught; 

Therefore  the  smallest  round  with  its  owti  mark  49 

Has  set  a  seal  on  Sodom  and  Cahors, 
And  all  who  speak,  despising  God  at  heart. 

Fraud, — for  which  all  men 's  consciences  are  gnawed, —      52 
Is  practised  against  him  who  trusts  in  us. 
And  against  him  who  cherishes  no  trust. 

This  latter  mode  would  murderously  sever  55 

Only  the  tie  of  love  that  Nature  makes ; 
Therefore  within  the  second  circle  nest 

Hypocrisy,  and  lies,  and  whosoe'er  58 

Bewitches,  forging,  theft,  and  simony, 
Panders,  and  barrators,  and  such  like  filth. 

By  the  other  mode  both  that  love  is  forgotten  61 


44  THE  DIVINE  COMEDY 

Which  Nature  makes,  and  that  which  afterwards 

Is  added  and  begets  a  special  faith; 
Hence  in  the  smallest  circle,  at  that  point  W 

Of  the  universe,  on  which  is  seated  Dis, 

Whoso  betrays  is  to  all  time  consumed. ' ' 
And  I : ' '  Master,  thy  reasoning  proceeds  ^^ 

Most  clearly,  and  distinguishes  full  well 

Both  the  abyss  and  those  possessing  it. 
But  do  thou  tell  me :  those  of  the  fat  marsh,  70 

Those  borne  by  the  wind  and  beaten  by  the  rain, 

And  those  that  meet  each  other,  so  harsh  of  tongue, 
Why  have  they  not  their  punishment  within  73 

The  ruddy  city,  if  God  holds  them  so 

In  wrath?  if  not,  why  are  they  in  such  case!*' 
And  he  to  me :  *  'Why  is  it  that  thy  wit  76 

Doth  go  so  far  astray  beyond  its  wont? 

Or  where  is  it  thy  mind  is  gazing  else  ? 
Rememberest  thou  not  those  words,  in  which  79 

Thy  Ethics  thoroughly  investigates 

The  dispositions  Heaven  will  not  abide : 
Incontinence,  and  wickedness,  and  mad  82 

Bestiality?    And  how  incontinence 

Less  offends  God,  and  so  less  blame  incurs  ? 
If  thou  wilt  note  well  what  this  doctrine  is,  85 

And  call  back  to  thy  memory  who  those  are 

That  suffer  punishment  above,  outside, 
Thou  shalt  see  clearly  why  from  these  fell  spirits  88 

They  are  set  off,  and  wherefore  less  offended 

Vengeance  divine  doth  deal  them  hammering  blows.** 
*  *  0  Sun,  that  healest  every  troubled  vision,  ®1 

Thou  dost  content  me  so,  when  thou  dost  solve, 

That  doubt,  not  less  than  knowledge,  pleases  me. 
Turn  once  again  a  little  back,"  I  said,  ^ 

**To  where  thou  sayest  that  usury  offends 


INFERNO,  XII  45 

Goodness  divine,  and  loosen  me  the  knot/' 
' '  Philosophy, ' '  said  he  to  me, ' '  points  out,  ^7 

To  him  who  understands  it,  not  alone 

In  one  sole  part,  how  Nature  takes  her  course 
From  the  Intellect  divine  and  from  Its  art ;  100 

And  if  thou  con  thy  Physics  faithfully. 

After  not  many  pages  thou  shalt  find. 
That  your  art  follows  her,  as  best  it  can,  103 

As  the  disciple  does  the  master,  so 

That  your  art  is,  as  'twere,  grandchild  of  God. 
By  both, — if  thou  remember  Genesis  106 

In  its  beginning, — it  behoves  mankind 

To  earn  its  livelihood  and  to  advance. 
And  as  the  usurer  takes  another  way,  109 

Both  in  herself  and  in  her  followers 

Nature  he  scorns,  placing  his  hope  elsewhere. 
But  follow  now,  it  pleases  me  to  go ;  112 

On  the  horizon  are  the  Fishes  quivering,  ,* 

And  wholly  over  Caurus  lie  the  Wain^^-''*'''-"*^  a^^^-^^-^^ 
And  far  on  yonder  we  go  down  the  steep. ' '     0  d^jtivcV  ^i.^.u-C' 


CANTO  XII 


The  place  we  reached  for  going  down  the  bank  Ulft  t^a  ii»«^ 

Was  alpine,  and,  by  what  was  there  besides,  } ^y>CiJU>*jL.^jC^ 

Of  such  a  kind  as  every  eye  would  shun. 

As  is  that  ruin,  which,  the  hither  side 
Of  Trent,  struck  in  its  flank  the  Adige, 
Either  through  earthquake,  or  support  that  failed, — 

For  from  the  mountain's  summit,  whence  it  moved     ^ 
Down  to  the  plain  this  rock  is  shattered  so, 
'Twould  give  a  kind  of  path  to  one  above : 

Such  the  descent  was  of  that  precipice ;  10 


->»A4^.aJIj,<\ 


46  THE  DIVINE  COMEDY 

And  on  the  margin  of  the  broken  chaam 

There  lay  outstretched  the  infamy  of  Crete, 
That  was  conceived  in  the  false  cow ;  and  when  13 

He  saw  us  there,  into  himself  he  bit, 

Like  one  whom  anger  inwardly  breaks  down. 
My  Sage  cried  out  toward  him :  '  *  It  may  be,  1<J 

Thou  think  'st  the  Duke  of  Athens  to  be  here, 

Who  in  the  world  above  gave  thee  thy  death ! 
Away  from  here,  thou  beast !  this  one  comes  not  1^ 

Instructed  by  thy  sister,  but  pursues 

His  way  to  look  upon  your  punishments. ' ' 
As  is  that  bull,  whose  halter  breaks  just  when  22 

He  has  received  the  mortal  stroke,  and  who  ^^ 

Can  go  no  more,  plunging  this  way  and  tha±;\/t}^^\^ 
So  saw  I  then  the  Minotaur  to  do.      -d^^-^^^^^^^^x^^^      25 

And  he,  perceiving,  cried:  *^Run  to  the  passage! 

While  he^oth_rage,  'tis  well  that  thou  descend.*' 
So  we' resumed  our  downward  way,  upon  28 

The  unloading  of  those  stones,  which  often  moved 

Beneath  the  novel  burden  of  my  feet. 
I  went  on,  thinking ;  and  he  said :  '  *  Perchance  31 

Thou  thinkest  on  this  ruin  in  the  guard 

Of  that  beast's  wrath,  which  I  have  just  now  quelled. 
Now  I  would  have  thee  know,  that  when  I  went  34 

The  other  time  down  to  the  nether  hell. 

This  cliff  had  not  yet  fallen.    But  certainly, 
If  I  discern  aright,  it  was  not  long  37 

Before  He  came,  who  the  great  booty  took 

From  Dis,  from  out  the  circle  uppermost, 
That  in  all  parts  this  loathsome  valley  deep  ^ 

So  trembled,  that  I  thought  the  universe 

Felt  love,  through  which,  some  think,  the  world  has  been 
Converted  into  chaos  many  times;  *3 

And  at  that  moment  did  this  ancient  rock 


INFERNO,  XII  47 

Make  such  a  downfall  here  and  otherwhere. 
But  fix  thine  eyes  upon  the  valley,  for  46 

The^  river  of  blood  is  near,  in  which  are  boiled 
All  who  by  violence  do  harm  to  men. ' ' 

0  blind  cupidity,  guilty  and  mad,  4^ 
Which  in  the  brief  life  spurs  us  so,  and  then 

So  in  the  eternal  steeps  us  wretchedly ! 

1  saw  a  wide  foss,  curving  in  an  arc,  52 
Such  that  it  was  embracing  all  the  plain. 

According  as  my  Guide  had  said ;  and  'twixt 
The  foot  of  the  bank  and  it,  in  single  file  55 

Were  running  Centaurs,  arrow-armed,  as  they 

Were  wont  to  go  a-hunting  in  the  world. 
Seeing  us  coming  down,  each  one  stood  still,  58 

And  from  the  troop  there  came  forth  three  with  bows 

And  javelins,  that  they  had  chosen,  first. 
And:  "To  what  torment  come  ye,  who  descend  61 

The  slope?"  one  of  them  cried  out  from  afar. 

' '  Tell  us  from  there ;  if  not,  I  draw  the  bow. ' ' 
My  Master  said :  ' '  The  answer  we  will  make  64 

To  Chiron  near-by,  there;  unhappily 

Thy  will  was  always  thus  precipitate." 
Then,  touching  me,  he  said :  ' '  That  one  isNessus^  67 

Who  for  fair  Dejanira  met  his  death. 

And  by  himself  wrought  vengeance  for  himself; 
He  in  the  middle,  gazing  at  his  breast,  70 

Is  the  great  Chiiion,  who  did  train  Achilles; 

That  other,  Pholus,  who  was  so  full  of  wrath. 
Thousands  on  thousands  they  go  round  the  foss,  73 

With  arrows  shooting  souls  that  wrest  themselves 

Up  from  the  blood  more  than  their  guilt  allows. ' ' 
Nearer  we  drew  to  those  swift-footed  beasts;  76 

Chiron  then  took  an  arrow,  and  put  back, 

With  the  notch-end,  his  beard  upon  his  jaws. 


48  THE  DIVINE  COMEDY 

When  he  had  thus  uncovered  his  great  mouth,  79 

He  said  to  his  companions :  * '  Do  ye  note 
Of  him  behind,  that  what  he  touches  moves? 

So  are  not  wont  to  do  the  feet  of  the  dead."  82 

And  my  good  Leader,  who  was  now  before 
His  breast,  where  the  two  natures  are  conjoined, 

Eeplied :  * '  He  is  indeed  alive  and  thus  85 

Alone,  I  needs  must  show  him  the  dark  vale ; 
Necessity  induces  him,  not  joy. 

From  singing  Alleluia  One  left  off,  88 

Who  gave  me  this  new  task ;  he  is  no  robber. 
Neither  am  I  a  spirit  fraudulent. 

But  by  that  Power,  by  which  I  move  my  steps  •! 

Along  so  wild  a  road,  give  unto  us 
Some  one  of  thine,  to  whom  we  may  keep  close, 

To  show  us  where  the  ford  is,  and  to  carry  ^^ 

Upon  his  back  this  one  who  is  not  spirit 
That  he  should  make  his  passage  through  the  air.*' 

Upon  his  right  breast  Chiron  bent  around,  ^^ 

And  said  to  Nessus :  *  *  Turn,  and  guide  them  so ; 
If  other  troops  meet  yours,  make  them  keep  off.  * ' 

Then  with  the  trusty  escort  we  moved  on,  100 

Along  the  margin  of  the  crimson  boiling. 
In  which  the  boiled  were  uttering  loud  shrieks. 

I  saw  a  folk  down  in  it  to  the  brows,  1^ 

And  the  great  Centaur  said :  *  *  Tyrants  are  these, 
Who  took  to  blood  and  plundering,  and  here 

Lament  their  pitiless  misdeeds ;  among  them  1^6 

Is  Alexander,  and  fierce  Dionysius 
Who  caused  that  Sicily  had  years  of  pain; 

And  yonder  forehead  that  has  such  black  hair  109 

Is  Azzolino's;  and  that  one  there,  the  blond, 
Is  Obizzo  of  Este,  who  in  truth  was  quenched 

Above  there  in  the  world  by  his  step-son. ' '  H* 


INFERNO,  XIII  49 

I  then  turned  to  the  Poet,  and  he  said : 

'  *  Let  him  be  first  to  thee,  and  me  be  second. ' ' 
A  little  further  on  the  Centaur  stopped  115 

Above  a  folk,  who  far  as  to  the  throat 

Seemed  issuing  from  out  the  boiling  stream. 
Then  at  our  side  a  solitary  shade  M^  iu.  * 

He  showed  us,  saying:  *'In  God's  bosom  he   JfuiUXjiX'  ^ 

Did  cleave  the  heart  still  honored  on  the  Thames. '''P'm,**'V5' 
Then  I  saw  folk,  who  forth  from  out  the  stream  121 

Held  up  the  head  and  all  the  chest  beside ; 

And  many  a  one  of  them  I  recognized. 
In  such  a  wise  grew  ever  shallower  124 

That  blood,  until  it  cooked  only  the  feet ; 

And  there,  too,  was  our  passage  of  the  foss. 
*'As  thou  on  this  side  seest  the  boiling  stream  127 

Go  on  continually  diminishing,'' 

The  Centaur  said,  * '  I  will  that  thou  believe 
That  on  this  other,  more  and  more  it  lowers  130 

Its  bottom,  till  it  comes  again  to  where 

It  is  assigned  to  tyranny  to  groan. 
Justice  divine  here  goads  that  Attila  133 

Who  was  a  scourge  upon  the  earth ;  Pyrrhus 

And  Sextus;  and  eternally  it  milks 
The  tears  which  with  the  boiling  it  unlocks  136 

From  Rinier  da  Corneto,  from  Rinier  Pazzo, 

"Who  on  the  highways  carried  on  such  war." 
Then  he  turned  backward,  and  repassed  the  ford.  139 


CANTO  XIII 

Not  yet  had  Nessus  come  unto  the  bank 
Upon  the  other  side,  when  we  went  on 
Within  a  wood,  in  which  no  path  was  marked. 

Not  leaves  of  green,  but  of  a  dusky  hue; 


50  THE  DIVINE  COMEDY 

Not  branches  smooth,  but  gnarled  and  intertwined; 

Not  any  fruits  were  there,  but  poisoned  thorns. 
Not  such  rough  thickets  nor  so  dense  belong  7 

To  those  wild  beasts  who  hate  the  places  tilled 

Between  Corneto  and  the  Cecina. 
Tis  here  the  filthy  Harpies  make  their  nests,  1® 

Who  drove  the  Trojans  from  the  Strophades 

With  dismal  presage  of  a  coming  harm. 
Broad  wings  have  they,  and  necks  and  faces  human,        13 

And  feet  with  claws,  and  the  great  body  feathered; 

And  on  the  strange  trees  utter  their  laments. 
And  the  good  Master  then  began  to  say :  1^ 

"Before  thou  enter  further  know  that  thou 

Art  in  the  second  round,  and  shalt  be  till 
Thou  shalt  come  out  upon  the  horrid  sands.  1® 

Therefore  look  well,  and  thou  shalt  see  such  things 

As  might  rob  words  of  mine  of  thy  belief. ' ' 
I  could  hear  sounds  of  wailing,  long  drawn  out  ^ 

On  every  side,  but  saw  no  one  to  make  them ; 

Wherefore,  bewildered  utterly,  I  stopped. 
I  think  he  thought  that  I  was  thinking  then,  ^ 

That  all  these  voices  from  among  the  trunks 

Came  from  a  folk  that  was  concealed  from  us. 
Therefore  the  Master  said :  *  *  If  thou  wilt  break  28 

From  off  one  of  these  plants  a  little  twig. 

The  thoughts  thou  hast  will  all  be  mutilated.'* 
And  then  a  little  I  stretched  forth  my  hand,  81 

And  plucked  a  small  branch  from  a  great  thorn  tree ; 

And  its  trunk  cried:  ''Why  art  thou  rending  metr 
^VTien  afterwards  it  had  grown  dark  with  blood,        j        ^ 

It  cried  anew:  "Why  art  thou  tearing  me? 
VHast  thou  not  any  pity  in  thy  spirit! 
Men  were  we,  and  are  now  turned  into  stocks ;  '^ 

Thy  hand  should  rightfully  deserve  to  be 


INFERNO,  XIII  |^....,ilU.x.x;r 

More  pitiful,  had  we  been  serpents'  souls. 'p.     ^  /U-*-»    <^  lyo4> 


As  from  a  log  that  is  green,  which  is  on  fire  cLvX-^^^*^*'^^ 

At  one  of  the  ends,  and  at  the  other  drips 

And  hisses  with  the  escaping  air ;  so  from 
That  broken  twig  were  issuing  combined  43 

Both  words  and  blood;  and  therefore  I  let  fall 

Thetip,  and  stood  Hke  one  who  is  afraid. 
''Had  it  been  in  his  power  to  believe  ..^..^..J^tit^ ^ 

At  first,  0  wounded  soul, ' '  replied  my  Sage,  -^^j^^  VMc-a-K-*^"^  *• 

''What  he  has  seen  but  only  in  my  verse, 
Against  thee  he  had  not  stretched  forth  his  hand ; 

But  the  incredible  condition  made 

Me  prompt  his  doing  that  which  weighs  on  me. 
But  tell  him  who  thou  wast,  so  that  he  may,  52 

By  way  of  some  amends,  refresh  thy  fame 

On  earth  above,  to  which  he  can  return. ' '  [me, 

And  the  trunk  said:  "So  with  sweet  speech  thou  lur'st  55 


That  I  cannot  be  silent;  and  may  it  not  Tc^lIv**^ 


Offend  you  that  I  stick  to  talk  a  while.         ^^-^  -   ^^  ±.  >r^*^^^  j 


vjiienu  yuu  Liiai  ±  slick  tu   Lain  a  wniie.  /'O  "^    t-c*-  ^^  J 

I  am  the  one  within  whose  keeping^were  \   V^^jS^^J^^i^  ^ 

'""Both  keys  of  Frederick 's  heart,  and  them  I  turneo^^^^^^ 

Both  locking  and  unlocking  softly,  so 
That  from  his  secrets  I  kept  out  almost  61 

All  men ;  and  to  the  glorious  office  brought 

Such  faith  that  I  Ipst  sleep,  ^d  pulse  thereby. 
The  hSrl^t  that  f  rom  'Caes^Psawefimg^ace  ^ 

Did  never  turn  away  her  strumpet  eyes, — 

The  common  death  and  vice  of  courts, — inflamed 
Against  me  then  the  souls  of  every  one ; 

And  the  inflamed  inflamed  Augustus__s_Q,      ^ 

Thatlaiy  glad  honorsturned  to  dismal  griefs. 
My  spirit,  through  disdainful  taste,  believing      »sV^  y 

That  it  by  dying  would  escape  disdain,  ,  /    s 

Made  me  unjust  against  my  ownjust_jelf.  j/ViJ 

— ■     '         ^^ 


52  THE  DIVINE  COMEDY 

JUS- 

uc^       And  by  the  new  roots  of  this  tree  I  swear  73 

'^   -^^^        To  you,  that  I  did  never  break  my  faith 
^J^-v*--*^         To  him,  so  worthy  honor,  and  my  lord. 
vvJL-Jl     If  one  of  you  should  go  back  to  the  world,  76 

Let  him  support  my  memory,  which  lies 
till  prostrate  from  the  blow  that  envy  gave." 
GL^  U<iu,^2e^ paused  a  while,  and  then:  ** Since  he  is  silent,"  79 

^^I^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^The  Poet  said  to  me,  ''lose  not  the  hour; 
x,,^^,^^       But,  if  more  please  thee,  speak  to  him  and  ask." 

Whence  I  to  him :  "Do  thou  still  question  him  82 

Of  what  thou  thinkst  would  satisfy  my  wish; 
For  I  could  not,  such  pity  fills  my  heart." 
So  he  began  again :  "  So  may  the  man  85 

Do  freely  that  which  thy  words  ask,  0  soul 
Incarcerated,  may  it  please  thee  still 
To  tell  us  how  the  soul  doth  bind  itself  88 

Within  these  knots ;  and  tell  us,  if  thou  canst, 
If  from  these  members  one  is  ever  loosed. ' ' 
And  then  the  trunk  blew  hard,  and  afterwards  ^1 

That  wind  to  these  words  was  transformed : 
"Briefly  shall  ye  be  answered.    When  the  fierce 
Spirit  has  taken  its  departure  from  94 

The  body,  whence  itself  has  torn  itself, 
Minos  doth  send  it  to  the  seventh  gulf. 
It  falls  to  the  wood,  not  to  a  chosen  spot,  ^7 

But,  wheresoever  fortune  flings  it,  there 
It  sprouts  as  would  a  grain  of  spelt ;  it  shoots  up 
Into  a  sapling  and  a  forest  plant;  ^^^ 

The  Harpies,  feeding  then  upon  its  leaves, 
Give  pain,  and  to  the  pain  a  window  give. 
We  shall  go  like  the  others  for  our  spoils,  103 

But  not  that  each  one  may  reclothe  himself; 
For  'tis  not  just  to  have  what  one  rejects. 
We  are  to  drag  them  hither,  and  all  through  1^ 


The  other,  who  seemed  to  himself  too 
Was  crying:  ' '  Lano  JrSStjIo  nimb^rv 


INFERNO,  XIII  53 

The  mournful  woods  our  bodies  shall  be  hanged. 

Each  on  the  thorn-tree  of  its  sore- vexed  shade." 
We  were  still  there  attentive  to  the  trunk,  109 

Thinking  that  it  might  wish  to  tell  us  more. 

When  lo !  we  were  surprised  by  a  great  noise, 
The  same  as  he  is,  who  feels  coming  on  112 

The  wild  boar  and  the  chase  toward  his  post. 

Who  hears  the  beasts  and  branches  as  they  crash. 
And  we,  beheld,  upon  jhe  left  hand,  two^  115 

Naked  and  torn,  and  in  such  headlong  flight, 

That  they  brake  every  barTier  of  the  WooJ 
The  one  in  front:  ''Now  hasten,  hasten,  death!''  H^   . 

slOW^  cv  \x>-0^    ^ 

were*"''^'^^         -tUx>ut-.' 
Thy  legs  when  at  II  Toppo  in  the  jousts!''  121 

And  he,  perchance  because  of  failing  breath,      0        jHl*  If 

Made  of  himself  and  of  a  Uush  agroup.  ^^j/'^^^^^^^'aaa/^ 

Behind  them  was  the  forest  full  oibitclies,        uji^Ji^^^^     a^aju^** 

Black,  ravenous,  and  running  like  grey-hourids^  .  .^-.JvT^ 

When  they  had  been  unleashed.    Into  the  one  .^m^^  o-m^-vw  a^^ 
Who  had  just  squatted  down  they  set  their  teeth,  127 

And  him  they  lacerated,  piece  by  piece; 

Then  carried  off  those  miserable  limbs. 
My  Guide  then  took  me  by  the  hand,  and  led  130 

Me  onward  to  the  bush,  whose  plaint  in  vain 

Was  through  the  bleeding  fractures  issuing. 
''0  Jacomo,"  it  cri^d^  ''da  Sant'  Andrea, 

How  helped  it  thee  to  make  of  me  a  screen? 

What  blame  do  I  have  of  thy  guilty  life?" 
When  over  it  the  Master  came  to  stand,  136 

He  said:  "Who  wast  thou,  who  dost  now  with  blood 

Blow  through  so  many  wounds  such  woful  words?" 
And  that  one  said  to  us :  "  0  souls  that  now  139 

Have  come  to  look  upon  the  shameful  havoc 


V-^J'''^^ 


i 


54  THE  DIVINE  COMEDY 

That  has  so  severed  from  me  these  my  leaves, 
Collect  them  at  the  foot  of  the  wretched  bush !  1^2 

'Xt'Z^    y^  a  citizen  of  her^ho  took   ^^^^VVa^. 
^     c^      '^peBaptist  in  the  placeof  her  first  patron ; 

Whence  ^K^'will  with  his  art  e  'er  make  her  sad ;  1*5 

And  were  not  at  the  Arno's  passage  still 
Some  semblance  of  him  left,  those  citizens, 
,<K.^^A>vw  Who  afterwards  did  build  it  up  anew  1*8 

.^^g^iJtiyi^    Over  the  ashes  left  by  Attila, 

Would  have  put  forth  their  toil  in  vain.    I  made 
A  gibbet  for  myself  of  my  own.hQUse. ' '  151 


CANTO  XIV 

Because  the  love  I  bore  my  native  place  ^"^T^^^J^^x^  y»^^ 
Constrained  me,  I  collected  jthe^strown  lea^gs,  ♦^•tuuv 
And  gave  them  back  to  him  now  faint  of  voicer*'*'^**P»^'*i^ 

Thence  came  we  to  the  bound  where  separates  •'^*  ** 

The  third  round  from  the  second;  where  is  seen 
A  mode  of  justice  that  is  horrible. 

Duly  to  manifest  the  novel  things  ^ 

I  say  that  we  had  reached  a  barren  plain, 
Which  from  its  bed  doth  every  plant  reject. 

The  woful  wood  was  round  about  it  like  10 

A  garland,  as  the  sad  foss  was  to  that ; 
We  stayed  our  steps  here  on  the  very  edge. 

The  floor  was  made  of  arid  and  dense  sand  1^ 

Not  otherwise  in  fashion  than  was  that 
Which  formerly  was  trodden  by  Cato's  feet. 

Vengeance  of  God !  oh,  how  thou  shouldst  be  held  1^ 

In  fear  by  every  one  of  those  who  read 
That  which  was  manifested  to  my  eyes! 

Many  a  flock  I  saw  of  naked  souls  1® 


INFERNO,  XIV  55 

Who  all  were  weeping  in  great  wretchedness ; 

And  on  each  seemed  imposed  a  special  law. 
For  some  of  them  were  lying  on  the  ground,  22 

Supine,  and  some  were  seated  all  crouched  up, 

And  others  went  about  continually. 
Those  that  went  round  were  far  more  numerous ;  25 

And  those  were  less  who  lay  down  to  the  pain. 

But  had  their  tongues  loosed  to  a  greater  grief. 
0  'er  the  whole  waste  of  sand,  falling  slowly,  28 

Were  raining  down  dilated  flakes  of  fire, 

As  those  of  snow  on  alps  without  a  wind. 
Like  to  the  flames  which  Alexander  saw  31 

In  those  hot  parts  of  India  to  fall 

Unbroken  to  the  ground  about  his  host. 
Whereat  he  took  good  care  to  have  his  troops  34 

Trample  the  soil,  because  the  vapor  thus 

Could  be  the  better  quenched  while  single  still; 
So  was  descending  the  eternal  heat ;  3^ 

With  which  the  sand  was  kindled,  as  the  tinder 

Beneath  the  steel,  for  doubling  of  the  pain. 
Without  reposing  ever  was  the  dance  40 

Of  the  afflicted  hands,  now  here,  now  there. 

With  shaking  the  fresh  burning  from  themselves. 
''Master,"  began  I,  ''thou  who  conquerest  43 

All  things,  save  the  hard  demons  who  came  forth 

Against  us  at  the  entrance  of  the  gate. 
Who  is  that  great  one,  who  seems  not  to  heed  46 

The  fire,  and  lies  disdainful  and  awry, 

So  that  the  rain  seems  not  to  ripen  him  ? ' ' 
And  he  himself,  who  had  observed  that  I  49 

Was  asking  of  my  Guide  concerning  him. 

Cried:  "What  I  was  in  life,  that  am  I  dead. 
Though  Jove  should  weary  his  smith  out,  from  whom        52 

He  took  in  anger  the  sharp  thunderbolt 


56  THE  DIVINE  COMEDY 

That  I  was  smitten  with  on  my  last  day, 
Or  wearied  he  the  others,  turn  by  turn,  55 

At  the  black  forge  in  Mongibello,  crying, 

'  Good  Vulcan,  help  me,  help  me ! '  even  as 
He  acted  when  in  the  Phlegraean  fight,  58 

And  should  he  hurl  with  all  his  might  at  me. 

He  could  not  get  thereby  joyful  revenge." 
Then  spoke  my  Guide  with  such  a  vehemence  61 

As  I  had  never  heard  him  use  before: 

"0  Capaneus,  in  that  thy  haughtiness 
Is  not  extinguished,  thou  art  punished  more ;  ^ 

No  torment  could  there  be,  save  thine  own  rage, 

That  were  a  pain  proportioned  to  thy  fury. '  * 
Then  with  a  better  countenance  he  turned  67 

To  me,  and  said :  * '  One  of  the  seven  kings 

Besieging  Thebes  was  he ;  he  held,  and  holds, 
It  seems,  God  in  disdain,  and  prizes  Him  70 

But  little,  seems  it ;  but,  as  I  did  tell  him. 

His  scorn  is  his  breast's  fittest  ornament. 
But  come  behind  me,  and  take  care  that  still  73 

Upon  the  scorched  sand  thou  put  not  thy  feet, 

But  keep  them  ever  close  beside  the  wood." 
Silent  we  reached  a  place  where  gushes  forth  76 

Out  of  the  wood  a  little  rivulet. 

Of  which  the  redness  makes  me  shudder  still. 
As  from  the  Bulicame  comes  a  stream  79 

Which  sinful  women  share  among  them  then, 

So  this  was  flowing  down  across  the  sand. 
Its  bed  and  both  its  sloping  banks  had  turned  82 

To  stone,  and,  too,  the  margins  on  each  side. 

Whence  I  perceived  our  way  across  was  there. 
**  Among  all  else  that  I  have  shown  to  thee  85 

Since  we  did  make  our  entrance  through  the  gate, 

Of  which  the  threshold  is  denied  to  none, 


INFERNO,  XIV  57 

There  has  been  nothing  by  thine  eyes  discerned  88 

So  notable  as  is  this  present  stream, 

Which  deadens  all  the  little  flames  above  it. ' ' 
These  words  were  of  my  Leader ;  wherefore  I  ^1 

Besought  him  that  he  would  bestow  the  food, 

Of  which  he  had  bestowed  on  me  desire. 
'  *  In  mid-sea  lies  a  devastated  land, ' '  ^^ 

Then  answered  he,  '  ^  of  which  the  name  is  Crete, 

Under  whose  king  the  olden  world  was  chaste. 
A  mountain  is  there,  which  formerly  was  glad  ^7 

"With  waters  and  with  leaves,  Ida  its  name; 

Now  it  is  desert  like  a  thing  outworn. 
Rhea  of  old  chose  it  to  be  her  son's  100 

Cradle  secure ;  and  to  conceal  him  better, 

"When  he  would  weep,  would  have  cries  uttered  there. 
Within  the  mountain  stands  a  great  old  man,  103 

Who  holds  his  shoulders  turned  towards  Damietta, 

And  as  into  his  mirror  looks  at  Rome. 
His  head  is  fashioned  of  fine  gold ;  his  arms  106 

And  breast  are  of  pure  silver;  then  as  far 

As  to  the  fork  he  is  of  brass;  from  there 
Downward  he  is  all  chosen  iron,  save  109 

That  his  right  foot  is  of  baked  earth ;  on  this  one 

More  than  upon  the  other  stands  he  straight. 
And  every  part,  excepting  that  of  gold,  112 

Is  broken  with  a  fissure  that  drips  tears, 

Which,  gathered,  through  that  cavern  make  their  way. 
They  flow  from  rock  to  rock  down  to  this  vale;  H^ 

Acheron,  Styx  and  Phlegethon  they  form; 

Then  through  this  narrow  channel  they  go  down 
To  where  there  is  no  more  descending ;  there  118 

They  form  Cocytus ;  and  what  that  pool  is 

Thou  shalt  behold,  as  here  it  is  not  told.*' 
And  I  to  him :  "  If  this  stream  present  now  121 


58  THE  DIVINE  COMEDY 

Is  flowing  downward  thus  from  our  world,  why- 
Appears  it  to  us  only  on  this  border?'' 

And  he  to  me:  ''The  place  is  circular,  124 

Thou  knowest,  and  although  thou  hast  come  far, 
E'er  by  the  left  descending  toward  the  bottom, 

Through  the  whole  circle  thou  hast  not  yet  turned ;  127 

So,  if  a  novel  thing  appears  to  us, 
It  ought  not  to  bring  wonder  to  thy  face." 

And  I  again :  ' '  Master,  where  are  they  found,  130 

Lethe  and  Phlegethon?  for  thou  say'st  naught 
Of  one,  and  that  the  other  this  rain  forms." 

* '  In  all  thy  questions, ' '  answered  he,  ' '  in  truth  133 

Thou  pleasest  me ;  but  the  red  water 's  boiling 
Might  well  have  solved  one  that  thou  askest  now. 

Lethe  shalt  thou  behold, — but  not  within  136 

This  foss, — where  souls  do  go  to  lave  themselves 
"When  guilt  repented  of  has  been  removed." 

Then  said  he :  ' '  Now  it  is  time  that  we  should  leave  139 

The  wood  behind;  see  that  thou  follow  me; 
The  margins,  which  burn  not,  afford  a  way, 

And  every  vapor  over  them  is  quenched. ' '  1^ 


CANTO  XV 

Now  one  of  the  hard  margins  bears  us  on ; 
And  overhead  the  brook 's  steam  made  such  shade 
As  saves  the  water  and  the  banks  from  fire. 

As  do  the  Flemings  'twixt  Wissant  and  Bruges, 
Fearing  the  flood  that  comes  toward  them  rushing, 
Who  make  the  bulwark  that  the  sea  may  flee; 

And  as  the  Paduans  along  the  Brenta, 
To  give  their  towns  and  castles  a  defence, 
Or  ever  Chiarentana  feel  the  heat. 


INFERNO,  XV  59 

In  fashion  similar  had  these  been  made,  10 

Though  they  were  not  so  high  nor  yet  so  thick 

Made  by  the  master,  whosoe'er  he  was. 
Already  were  we  so  far  from  the  wood,  13 

That  I  could  not  have  seen  then  where  it  was 

Although  I  had  turned  backward,  when  we  met 
A  troop  of  souls  now  coming  alongside  16 

The  bank ;  and  each  was  looking  so  at  us 

As  in  the  evening  men  are  wont  to  look 
At  one  another  under  the  new  moon;  19 

And  they  were  sharpening  their  brows  toward  us, 

As  an  old  tailor  at  his  needle's  eye. 
I  was  thus  peered  at  by  that  company  22 

When  I  was  recognized  by  one,  who  seized 

My  garment's  hem,  and  cried:  "What  a  marvel  this!" 
And  I,  when  he  stretched  out  his  arm  to  me,  25 

So  fixed  my  eyes  on  his  baked  aspect,  that 

The  scorching  of  his  visage  hindered  not 
The  recognition  of  him  by  my  mind;  28 

And  bending  down  my  own  toward  his  face, 

I  answered  him :  ' '  Are  you  here,  Ser  Brunetto  ? ' ' 
And  he:  ''My  son,  oh,  let  it  not  displease  thee  31 

If  Brunetto  Latini  a  little  while 

Turns  back  with  thee,  and  lets  the  train  go  on." 
I  said  to  him:  ''With  all  my  might  I  beg  you;  34 

And  if  you  will  that  I  sit  down  with  you, 

I  will,  if  it  please  him  with  whom  I  go." 
"0  Son,"  said  he,  "whoever  of  this  herd  37 

Stops  for  an  instant,  lies  a  hundred  years 

Thereafter,  nor  can  fan  himself  from  fire 
That  smites  him.     So,  go  on;  I  at  thy  skirts  40 

Will  come  and  afterwards  rejoin  my  band. 

Which  goes  lamenting  endless  penalties. ' ' 
I  dared  not  go  down  from  the  road  to  walk  43 


60  THE  DIVINE  COMEDY 

Upon  his  level,  but  I  held  my  head 

Bent  down,  as  one  who  goes  in  reverent  mood. 
*'What  fortune  or  what  destiny,*'  began  he,  ^ 

''Before  the  last  day  brings  thee  here  below? 

And  who  is  this  one  who  points  out  the  wayT* 
"Up  there  in  the  bright  life,"  I  answered  him,  49 

* '  I  went  astray  while  in  a  valley,  ere 

My  age  was  full,  and  only  in  the  morn 
Of  yesterday  turned  I  my  back  on  it;  52 

This  one  appeared  to  me  then  into  it 

Regressing,  and  now  leads  me  home  this  way. ' ' 
And  he  to  me :  ' '  If  thou  thy  star  wilt  follow,  55 

Thou  canst  not  fail  to  reach  the  glorious  port, 

If  in  the  fair  life  I  discerned  aright; 
And  if  I  had  not  met  my  death  so  soon,  58 

Seeing  the  heavens  so  full  of  grace  for  thee 

I  would  have  given  thee  comfort  at  the  work. 
But  that  ungrateful  and  malignant  folk,  *l 

That  from  Fiesole  came  down  of  old. 

And  still  keeps  somewhat  of  the  hills  and  rocks, 
Will  grow  thine  enemy,  for  thy  good  deeds;  ^* 

And  it  is  right,  for  'mid  harsh  sorb-trees  'twere 

Not  seemly  the  sweet  fig-tree  should  bear  fruit. 
Old  fame  in  the  world  proclaims  them  to  be  blind,  ^7 

A  people  avaricious,  envious,  proud ; 

From  their  ways  see  that  thou  do  cleanse  thyself. 
Thy  fortune  has  in  store  for  thee  such  honor,  70 

That  both  sides  will  be  hungering  for  thee; 

But  far  off  from  the  goat  shall  be  the  grass. 
Let  then  the  beasts,  come  from  Fiesole,  ^^ 

Make  litter  of  themselves,  nor  touch  the  plant. 

If  one  upon  their  dung-heap  still  should  rise, 
In  which  should  live  again  the  holy  seed  7* 

Of  those  from  Rome,  who  had  remained,  when  there 


INFERNO,  XV  61 

Was  made  the  nest  of  so  much  wickedness." 
**If  my  request  were  perfectly  fulfilled,"  79 

I  answered  him,  ''you  would  not  yet  have  been 

From  human  nature  put  to  banishment; 
For  in  my  mind  is  fixed,  and  my  heart  knows,  82 

The  dear  and  kindly  picture  of  you  as 

A  father,  when  on  earth  from  hour  to  hour 
You  taught  me  how  man  makes  himself  eternal ;  85 

In  what  esteem  I  hold  it,  whilst  I  live 

It  is  fitting  in  my  speech  should  be  discerned. 
That  which  you  tell  me  of  my  course,  I  write,  88 

And  keep  it  to  be  glossed  with  other  text 

By  one,  a  Lady,  who  will  understand. 
If  I  attain  to  her.    Thus  much  would  I  91 

Have  plain  to  you :  if  conscience  chide  me  not, 

For  Fortune  as  she  will  I  am  prepared. 
Such  earnest  is  not  novel  to  my  ears;  94 

Wherefore  let  Fortune  ply  her  wheel,  e  'en  as 

It  pleases  her,  and  every  boor  his  hoe." 
My  Master  thereupon  toward  his  right  97 

Turned  backward,  and  his  eyes  were  fixed  on  me ; 

Then  said :  ' '  Well  does  he  listen  who  takes  heed. ' ' 
Not  less  for  this  I  go  on  talking  still  100 

With  Ser  Brunetto,  and  I  ask  who  are 

The  best  of  his  companions  and  best  known. 
And  he  to  me :  "  It  is  good  to  know  of  some ;  103 

As  for  the  rest,  it  will  be  laudable 

If  we  be  silent,  for  the  time  were  short 
For  so  much  speech.    Know  then,  in  brief,  that  all  106 

Were  clerks  and  scholars  great  and  of  great  fame, 

And  by  one  self -same  sin  on  earth  defiled. 
Priscian  is  going  with  that  wretched  crowd,  109 

And  Francesco  d'Accorso;  and  besides. 

If  thou  hadst  had  a  hankering  for  such  scurf. 


62  THE  DIVINE  COMEDY 

Thou  couldst  have  seen  there  him  who  was  transferred  112 
From  Arno  by  the  servant  of  the  servants 
To  Bacchiglione  where  he  left  behind 

His  ill-strained  nerves ;  and  I  would  tell  of  more,  1^5 

But  to  go,  talking,  may  no  longer  be. 
For  I  see  there  new  smoke  rise  from  the  sand. 

People  come  now  with  Whom  I  must  not  be ;  1^8 

Permit  my  '  Treasure '  in  which  I  still  live 
To  be  commended  to  thee;  more  I  ask  not." 

Then  he  turned  back,  and  seemed  as  one  of  those  ^21 

Who  at  Verona  run  the  green  cloth  race 
Over  the  open  field;  and  seemed  of  these 

The  one  who  wins  and  not  the  one  who  loses.  124 


CANTO  XVI 

I  NOW  was  where  I  heard  the  hollow  sound 
Of  the  water  to  the  other  circle  falling, 
Like  to  that  humming  which  the  bee-hives  make, 

When  lo!  three  shades  together  came  away,  * 

As  they  were  running  from  a  band  that  now 
Was  passing,  'neath  the  bitter  torment's  rain. 

They  came  toward  us  and  each  was  crying  out:  ^ 

*  *  Stop,  thou  who  by  thy  garb  seemest  to  us 
To  be  some  one  from  our  own  wicked  land." 

Ah  me !  upon  their  limbs  what  wounds  I  saw  ^^ 

Recent  and  old  burnt  in  by  the  flames!  and  still 
I  grieve  for  them,  when  I  but  think  of  it. 

My  Teacher  gave  attention  to  their  cries,  l»^ 

And  turned  his  face  toward  me,  and  said:  **Now  wait; 
To  these  it  is  due  that  we  be  courteous; 

And  if  it  were  not  the  nature  of  the  place  ^^ 

To  dart  the  fire,  then  I  should  say  that  haste 


INFERNO,  XVI  63 

To  thee  were  more  becoming  than  to  them." 

And  they  began  again,  as  we  stood  still,  1^ 

The  ancient  verse ;  and  when  they  had  reached  us 
All  three  of  them  made  of  themselves  a  wheel. 

As  champions  wont  to  do,  naked  and  oiled,  22 

Watching  for  hold  and  vantage  ere  they  come 
Together  to  deliver  blows  and  thrusts; 

Thus  wheeling,  each  one  held  his  face  toward  me  25 

So  that  the  neck  continually  turned 
In  opposite  direction  from  the  feet. 

**Ah!  if  the  wretchedness  of  this  soft  place  28 

Should  bring  us  and  our  prayers  into  contempt," 
Began  one,  ''and  our  aspect  stained  and  flayed, 

May  that  fame  which  is  ours  incline  thy  mind  31 

To  tell  us  who  thou  art,  that  so  secure 
Dost  rub  with  living  feet  the  ways  of  hell. 

He  in  whose  footsteps  thou  dost  see  me  tread,  34 

Though  he  go  naked  and  deprived  of  skin, 
"Was  of  a  higher  rank  than  thou  mayst  think. 

He  was  a  grandson  of  the  good  Gualdrada ;  37 

His  name  was  Guido  Guerra;  and  in  his  life 
He  wrought  much  both  with  wisdom  and  with  sword. 

The  other  who  behind  me  treads  the  sand  40 

Is  Tegghiaio  Aldobrandi,  whose  good  name 
Should  be  esteemed  up  yonder  in  the  world. 

And  I  who  am  placed  with  them  on  the  cross  43 

Was  lacopo  Rusticucci,  and  surely 
My  savage  wife  hurts  me  beyond  all  else. ' ' 

If  I  had  been  protected  from  the  fire,  46 

I  should  have  cast  me  down  into  their  midst; 
I  think  my  Teacher  would  have  suffered  it. 

But  as  I  should  have  been  both  burned  and  baked,  49 

Fear  overcame  the  good  will  that  I  had. 
Which  made  me  yearn  to  clasp  them  in  my  arms. 


64 


67 


64  THE  DIVINE  COMEDY 

Then  I  began:  *'It  was  sorrow,  not  contempt,  52 

So  firmly  fixed  within  me  by  your  state 

That  it  will  be  long  hence  ere  I  shall  be 
Divested  of  it  all,  as  soon  as  this  ^ 

My  Lord  spoke  words  by  which  I  was  aware 

That  those  were  coming  of  your  quality. 
Of  your  own  land  am  I,  and  at  all  times  58 

Your  deeds  and  honored  names  with  loving  pride 

Have  I  recounted  and  have  listened  to. 
Leaving  the  gall,  I  go  on  for  sweet  fruits  ^^ 

Promised  to  me  by  my  veracious  Guide; 

But  to  the  centre  first  I  needs  must  fall.'' 
*  *  So  may  the  soul  long  be  the  guide  within 

Thy  limbs,"  replied  he  then,  ''and  after  thee 

So  may  thy  fame  shine  forth,  tell  us  if  still 
Valor  and  courtesy  abide  within 

Our  city  so  as  they  were  wont  to  do, 

Or  have  departed  from  it  utterly? 
For  Guglielmo  Borsiere,  lately  come  ^^ 

To  share  our  pain, — he  yonder  with  the  rest, — 

Afflicts  us  sorely  with  his  words  on  that." 
*'New  families  and  sudden  gains  have  bred,  ^ 

Florence,  in  thee,  such  pride  and  such  excess. 

That  thou  already  sheddest  tears  therefor." 
Thus  with  my  face  uplifted,  I  cried  out;  ^* 

The  three,  who  took  this  for  an  answer,  looked 

At  one  another,  as  when  men  hear  truth. 
"If  at  so  slight  expense  at  other  times  ^* 

Thou  satisfiest  others,"  all  replied, 

*  *  Happy  art  thou,  if  so  thou  speak  at  will. 
So,  if  escaping  these  dark  regions,  thou  ®* 

Return  to  see  the  beauty  of  the  stars. 

And  thou  shalt  say,  rejoicing:  *I  have  been,* 
See  that  unto  the  folk  thou  speak  of  us."  ^ 


INFERNO,  XVI  65 

And  thereupon  they  broke  apart  the  wheel, 

And  as  they  fled  their  nimble  legs  seemed  wings. 
It  were  not  possible  to  say  Amen  88 

As  quickly  then  as  they  had  disappeared; 

"Wherefore  it  pleased  the  Master  to  depart. 
I  followed  him,  and  we  had  gone  but  little  ^1 

Before  the  sound  of  water  was  so  near, 

That  we,  if  speaking,  could  have  scarce  been  heard. 
So  as  that  river,  which  first  keeps  a  path  ^4 

Its  own,  from  Monte  Viso  toward  the  east, 

Upon  the  left  flank  of  the  Appenine, — 
Which  is  called  Acquacheta  up  above,  ^7 

Ere  it  go  valley-ward  to  its  low  bed, 

And  at  Forli  is  lacking  of  that  name, — 
Goes  sounding  there  above  San  Benedetto  100 

Deir  Alpe,  falling  in  a  single  leap 

"Where  by  a  thousand  it  should  be  received; 
Thus  downward  from  a  bank  precipitous  103 

"We  found  that  the  stained  water  sounded  so 

As  would  have  stunned  our  ears  in  little  time. 
I  had  a  cord  that  was  ai^ound  me  girt,  106 

And  with  it  I  aforetime  had  in  mind 

To  take  the  leopardess  of  the  painted  skin. 
"When,  as  my  Leader  had  commanded  me,  109 

I  had  completely  loosed  it  from  myself, 

I  reached  it  to  him,  knotted  and  coiled  up. 
And  thereupon  he  turned  him  toward  the  right  112 

And  at  some  little  distance  from  the  edge 

He  cast  it  down  into  that  deep  abyss. 
**  Surely  some  novelty  must  correspond, ' '  115 

Said  I  within  myself,  "to  this  new  signal, 

"Which  with  his  eye  my  Master  follows  so." 
Ah,  how  great  caution  is  befitting  men  118 

"Who  are  near  those  that  see  not  deeds  alone 


66  THE  DIVINE  COMEDY 

But  with  their  wisdom  look  within  the  thoughts ! 
He  said  to  me;  **What  I  await  shall  soon  121 

Come  up,  and  what  thy  thought  is  dreaming  of 

Must  soon  disclose  itself  unto  thy  view." 
Always  to  such  a  truth  as  has  the  look  124 

Of  falsehood,  one  should  close  his  lips  with  all 

His  might,  lest  faultless  he  be  put  to  shame; 
But  here  I  can  not  hold  my  peace,  and  by  127 

The  verses  of  this  Comedy  I  swear 

To  thee,  0  reader, — so  may  they  not  lack 
Long  favor, — that  I  saw,  through  that  gross  air  130 

And  dark,  come  swimming  up  a  shape,  that  were 

A  thing  of  wonder  to  each  steadfast  heart ; 
Even  so  returns  he  who  goes  down  at  times  138 

To  loose  an  anchor  grappling  either  rock 

Or  somewhat  else  that  in  the  sea  is  hid, 
Who  upward  stretches  and  draws  up  his  feet.  1^6 


CANTO  XVII 

**  Behold  the  wild  beast  with  the  pointed  tail, 

That  passes  mountains,  breaks  down  walls  and  arms ; 
Behold  the  one  infecting  all  the  world." 

My  Leader  thus  began  to  speak  to  me ;  * 

And  beckoned  him  that  he  should  come  to  shore 
Near  where  the  marbles  walked  on  come  to  end ; 

And  he,  of  Fraud  the  loathsome  image,  came  7 

Along,  and  landed  there  his  head  and  bust, 
But  on  the  bank  he  drew  not  up  his  tail. 

His  face  was  as  the  face  of  a  just  man,  1^ 

Of  such  benignity  its  outward  skin. 
And  all  his  trunk  besides  was  serpent-like. 

Two  paws  he  had,  covered  with  hair  as  far  1* 


INFERNO,  XVII  67 

As  to  the  arm-pits ;  back  and  breast  and  both 

His  sides  had  painted  on  them  knots  and  wheels ; 
With  more  of  color,  groundwork  and  relief,  16 

Cloth  ne  'er  was  made  by  Tartar  nor  by  Turk ; 

Such  webs  Arachne  never  laid  on  loom. 
As  sometimes  boats  are  at  the  shore,  and  lie  1^ 

In  water  partlj^,  partly  on  the  land; 

As  in  yon  lands  of  German  gluttony 
The  beaver  doth  adjust  himself  to  wage  22 

His  war;  so  lay  that  worst  of  beasts  upon 

The  edge  that  closes  in  the  sand  with  stone. 
And  all  his  tail  was  quivering  in  the  void  25 

And  twisting  upward  the  empoisoned  fork 

Which  armed  the  tip,  as  with  the  scorpion. 
The  Leader  said :  ' '  It  is  now  needful  that  28 

Our  way  should  bend  itself  a  little  space 

Toward  the  wicked  beast  that  couches  there." 
So  we  descended  on  the  right-hand  side  31 

And  took  ten  steps  upon  the  very  edge. 

Thus  surely  to  avoid  the  sand  and  flames. 
And  when  we  had  comfe  to  him  I  behold  34 

A  little  further  on  upon  the  sand 

People  that  sit  near  to  the  empty  place. 
The  Master  hereupon  said  unto  me :  37 

''That  thou  mayst  carry  hence  completely  full 

Experience  of  this  round,  go  view  their  state. 
Thy  conversation  yonder  be  but  brief;  40 

Till  thou  return,  with  this  one  I  will  speak. 

That  his  strong  shoulders  may  be  granted  us.'' 
Thus,  still  along  upon  the  outer  side  43 

Of  this  the  seventh  circle,  all  alone 

I  went  to  where  the  wretched  people  sat. 
Their  grief  was  bursting  forth  from  out  their  eyes ;  ^^ 

This  side,  that  side,  they  used  their  hands  to  help 


68  THE  DIVINE  COMEDY 

Now  'gainst  the  vapors,  now  'gainst  burning  soil. 

The  dogs  in  summer  do  not  otherwise,  ^ 

Using  the  muzzle  now  and  now  the  foot, 
When  gadflies,  fleas,  or  flies  have  bitten  them. 

When  on  the  face  of  certain  ones  my  eyes  52 

I  fixed,  on  whom  the  grievous  fire  was  falling, 
Not  one  I  recognized;  but  I  observed 

From  each  one 's  neck  there  hung  a  pouch,  which  had       55 
A  certain  color  and  a  certain  mark. 
And  thereupon  their  eyes  appeared  to  feed. 

And  as  I  looked,  coming  into  their  midst,  58 

Upon  a  purse  of  yellow,  I  could  see 
Azure,  which  had  a  lion's  face  and  bearing. 

The  current  of  my  look  proceeding,  next  •! 

I  saw  another  one  of  them  blood-red, 
Display  a  goose,  whiter  than  butter  is. 

And  one  who  had  his  little  white  sack  marked  •* 

With  figure  of  an  azure,  pregnant  sow, 
Said  unto  me:  "What  doest  thou  in  this  ditch! 

Now  go  thy  way;  since  thou  art  still  alive  ®^ 

Know  that  Vitaliano  shall  sit  here — 
He  was  my  neighbor — at  my  left-hand  side. 

Of  Florence  these;  I  am  of  Padua;  ^^ 

Often  they  stun  my  ears  with  crying  out: 
*May  that  one  come,  the  sovereign  cavalier,    [screwed 

Who  will  bring  the  three-beaked  pouch. '  ' '    And  then  he  73 
His  mouth  awry,  and  outward  thrust  his  tongue, 
As  does  the  ox  whene'er  he  licks  his  nose. 

And  I,  who  feared  lest  further  stay  might  grieve  ^6 

Him  who  enjoined  me  to  make  brief  my  stay, 
Turned  me,  and  left  the  weary  souls  behind. 

I  found  my  Leader,  who  was  mounted  now  ^ 

Upon  the  croup  of  the  fierce  animal ; 
He  said  to  me:  **Now  be  thou  strong  and  bold; 


INFERNO,  XYII 


Henceforward  the  descent  is  by  such  stairs. 
Mount  thou  in  front;  for  I  will  be  between, 
In  order  that  the  tail  may  not  do  harm. ' ' 

As  one  who  has  the  quartan  shivering  fit 
So  near  that  pale  already  are  his  nails, 
All  trembling  for  mere  looking  at  the  shade. 

Such  at  these  uttered  words  did  I  become ; 
But  his  reproofs  caused  me  such  shame  as  makes 
A  servant  strong  in  a  kind  master's  sight. 

On  those  huge  shoulders  I  arranged  myself. 
''So  do,"  I  wished  to  say,  but  as  I  thought 
The  voice  came  not,  ' '  that  thine  arms  clasp  me  round. ' ' 

But  he,  who  was  my  help  another  time, 
In  other  hazard,  soon  as  I  was  up 
Clasped  me,  sustaining  me  within  his  a: 

And  said :  ' '  Now  move  thee,  Geryon,  and  be   *''cx>*^c-^ 
Thy  circles  wide,  and  slow  thy  going  down; 
Think  of  the  novel  burden  that  thou  hast."   . 

And  as  the  little  vessel  from  its  place 

Goes  backward,  backward,  so  did  he  draw  thence ; 
And  when  he  felt  that  he  was  all  in  play. 

To  where  his  breast  had  been  he  turned  his  tail. 
And  moved  it  stretched  out  like  an  eel ;  and  with 
His  paws  he  gathered  to  himself  the  air. 

I  do  not  think  that  there  was  greater  fear 
When  Phaethon  let  go  the  reins,  whereby 
The  heaven,  as  still  is  evident,  was  burned 

Nor  when  the  wretched  Icarus  perceived 
His  loins  unfeathered  with  the  melted  wax. 
His  father  crying  to  him:  '*A  wrong  course 

Thou  boldest ! ' '  than  was  mine,  when  on  all  sides 
I  saw  myself  in  air,  and  saw  cut  off 
The  sight  of  everything  except  the  beast. 

As  swimming  slowly,  slowly,  it  moves  on. 


82 


85 


88 


91 


94 


100 


103 


106 


109 


112 


115 


70  THE  DIVINE  COMEDY 

It  wheels  descending,  but  I  note  it  not, 
Except  for  wind  in  face  and  from  below. 

Now  at  the  right  hand  I  could  hear  the  rapids  118 

Making  beneath  us  noises  horrible; 
And  so  with  downward  gaze  stretch  out  my  head. 

Then  had  I  more  dread  of  the  precipice,  121 

For  I  saw  fires,  and  heard  laments,  whereat 
I  trembling  shrank  back,  wholly  cowering. 

And  I  saw  then, — for  I  could  not  before, —  124 

The  sinking  and  the  wheeling  by  the  ills 
That,  great,  were  drawing  near  on  divers  sides. 

As  when  the  falcon,  long  upon  the  wing,  127 

That  without  sight  of  lure  or  bird  has  caused 
The  falconer  to  cry,  "Ah  me,  thou  stoopest  now!*' 

Descends  in  weariness  whence  it  moved  swift  130 

With  hundred  wheelings,  and  alights  far  off, — 
Disdainful,  sullen, — from  its  master's  place; 

So  at  the  bottom  Geryon  set  us  133 

Beside  the  very  foot  of  that  rough  rock, 
And,  as  our  bodies  burdened  him  no  more, 

Sped  fast  away,  as  arrow-notch  from  string. 


CANTO  XVIII 


There  is  a  place  in  hell  called  Malebolge, 
Wholly  of  stone  and  of  an  iron  color. 
As  is  the  wall  encircling  it  about. 

Right  in  the  midst  of  the  malignant  field 
There  yawns  a  pit,  exceeding  wide  and  deep, 
Whose  ordering  I  will  in  due  time  tell. 

The  belt,  then,  that  remains  is  round,  between 
The  foot  of  that  high,  hard  bank  and  the  pit, 
Its  bed  divided  into  valleys  ten. 


136 


INFERNO,  XVIII  71 

As,  where  for  the  protection  of  the  walls  10 

Castles  are  girt  with  very  many  moats. 

The  ground  where  they  are  is  configured,  such 
The  picture  was  that  these  presented  here.  13 

As  from  the  thresholds  of  such  fortresses 

Are  little  bridges  to  the  outer  bank, 
So  from  the  bottom  of  the  cliff  ran  crags  1^ 

That  crossed  the  banks  and  moats  down  to  the  pit, 

Which  terminates  and  takes  them  to  itself. 
This  was  the  place  where,  shaken  from  the  back  l^ 

Of  Geryon,  we  found  ourselves ;  to  the  left 

The  Poet  kept,  and  I  moved  on  behind. 
On  the  right  hand  I  saw  new  piteous  sights,  22 

New  torments  and  new  wielders  of  the  scourge ; 

And  the  first  bolgia  is  replete  with  them. 
The  sinners  at  its  bottom  were  unclad ;  -25 

This  side  the  middle  they  came  facing  us ; 

Beyond,  with  us  although  with  greater  steps. 
So  they  of  Rome,  because  of  the  great  host  28 

The  year  of  Jubilee,  upon  the  bridge 

Devised  a  way  to  have  the  people  pass, 
So  that  on  one  side  all  are  facing  toward  31 

The  castle,  going  to  Saint  Peter's,  while 

Those  on  the  other  rim  go  toward  the  mount. 
This  side  and  that  along  the  gloomy  rock  34 

Homed  demons  with  great  scourges  I  beheld, 

Who  from  behind  them  beat  them  crueUy. 
And  oh,  how  they  were  making  them  lift  up  37 

Their  heels  at  the  first  blows !    Truly  not  one 

Was  waiting  for  the  second  or  the  third ! 
While  I  was  going  on  my  eyes  were  met  *0 

By  one,  and  I  upon  the  instant  said : 

''The  sight  of  him  before  now  I  lack  not.'' 
So,  to  make  out  his  form,  I  stayed  my  feet,  43 


72  THE  DIVINE  COMEDY 

And  also  the  sweet  Leader  stopped  with  me, 

And  granted  that  I  go  a  little  back. 
And  that  scourged  one  thought  to  conceal  himself  ^ 

By  lowering  his  face,  but  that  availed 

Him  little,  for  I  said:  ''Thou,  who  dost  cast 
Thine  eye  to  earth,  if  thy  face  be  not  false,  *• 

Venedico  Caccianimico  art; 

But  what  brings  thee  to  Salse  that  sting  so  V 
And  he  to  me :  ' '  Unwillingly  I  tell  it,  52 

But  I  am  forced  to  it  by  thy  clear  speech, 

Which  makes  me  call  to  mind  the  world  of  old. 
I  am  the  one  who  Ghisolabella  led  55 

Unto  the  doing  of  the  Marquis'  will, 

However  may  be  told  the  shameful  tale. 
I  weep  here,  not  the  only  Bolognese ;  58 

Nay,  this  place  is  so  full  of  them,  that  not 

'Twixt  Reno  and  Savena  fewer  tongues 
Learn  to  say  sipa;  and  if  thou  of  this  •! 

"Wilt  have  assurance  or  an  evidence, 

Recall  to  mind  our  avaricious  breasts.*' 
Him  speaking  thus  a  demon  with  his  scourge  W 

Smote,  as  he  said:  "Away,  thou  pander!    Here 

There  are  no  women  to  be  turned  to  coin!" 
My  escort  I  rejoined,  and  thereupon  67 

"With  but  a  few  steps  taken  we  had  come 

To  where  a  crag  was  jutting  from  the  bank. 
This  we  ascended  very  easily,  70 

And,  turning  to  the  right  upon  its  ridge, 

From  these  eternal  circles  moved  away. 
When  we  had  come  to  that  point  where  it  yawns  ^ 

Beneath  it  to  give  passage  to  the  scourged, 

The  Leader  said :  *  *  Wait,  and  let  strike  on  thee 
Sight  of  those  others,  ill-born,  of  whom  yet  76 

Thou  has  not  seen  the  faces,  inasmuch 


INFERNO,  XVIII  73 

As  they  with  us  have  gone  along  together." 
From  the  old  bridge  we  looked  upon  the  line  79 

Coming  toward  us  on  the  other  side, 

And  which  the  scourge  was  likewise  driving  on. 
Without  my  asking  the  good  Master  said :  82 

''Look  at  that  great  one  who  is  coming,  and 

Who  seems  not  for  his  pain  to  shed  a  tear. 
What  aspect  of  a  king  he  still  retains !  85 

It  is  Jason,  who  by  courage  and  by  wit 

Deprived  the  Colchians  of  the  ram.    The  isle 
Of  Lemnos  was  upon  his  way,  where  erst  88 

The  women,  in  their  boldness  pitiless, 

Had  given  over  all  their  males  to  death. 
It  was  there  with  tokens  and  with  ornate  words  ^1 

He  did  deceive  Hypsipyle,  the  maid. 

Who  all  the  other  women  first  deceived. 
He  left  her  there  with  child  and  lonely ;  such  94 

A  fault  condemns  him  to  such  suffering; 

And  for  Medea  too  is  vengeance  taken. 
With  him  goes  whoso  in  such  wise  deceives ;  97 

And  let  this  be  enoiigh  to  know  of  this 

First  valley,  and  of  those  within  its  fangs.'* 
We  were  already  where  the  narrow  path,  100 

Crossing  the  next  embankment,  makes 

Of  that  abutments  for  another  arch. 
We  heard  from  there  people  who  whine  within  103 

The  next  pouch,  and  are  puffing  with  their  muzzles. 

The  while  they  beat  themselves  with  their  own  palms. 
The  banks  were  all  encrusted  with  a  mould  106 

From  breath,  that  from  below  adhered  to  them 

And  quarreled  with  the  eyes  and  with  the  nose. 
The  bottom  was  so  dark  and  deep,  no  place  109 

Sufficed  for  us  to  see  it,  unless  we  mounted 

The  arch's  crown  where  highest  rose  the  crag. 


74  THE  DIVINE  COMEDY  » 

Hither  we  came,  and  thence  down  in  the  ditch  1^2 

I  looked  on  people  plunged  into  a  filth 

That  seemed  from  human  privies  to  have  come. 
And  while  my  eyes  were  searching  there  below,  US 

I  saw  one  with  his  head  so  foul  with  ordure 

That  were  he  clerk  or  lajnnan  appeared  not. 
He  shouted  to  me:  ''Why  so  greedy  thou  118 

To  look  at  me  more  than  at  others  foul?" 

And  I  to  him:  ''Because,  if  I  recall 
Aright,  ere  now  I  have  seen  thee  with  dry  hair;  121 

Thou  art  Alessio  Interminei  of  Lucca; 

I  therefore  eye  thee  more  than  all  the  resf 
And  then  he  said,  beating  his  pate  meanwhile :  124 

"Down  here  have  made  me  sink  the  flatteries 

With  which  my  tongue  was  never  surfeited.'* 
' '  Strive, ' '  said  my  Leader  thereupon  to  me,  127 

' '  To  thrust  thy  look  a  little  further  on. 

So  that  thou  mayst  attain  well  with  thine  eyes 
The  face  of  that  unclean,  disheveled  wench,  130 

Who  there  doth  scratch  herself  with  her  foul  nails, 

And  crouches  now,  and  now  is  on  her  feet. 
Thais  it  is,  the  harlot,  who  replied  133 

Unto  her  paramour,  when  he  had  said, 

*  Have  I  great  thanks  from  thee  ? ' — '  Nay,  marvelous ! ' 
And  herewith  let  our  sight  be  satisfied.'*  136 

CANTO  XIX 

0  Simon  Magus,  0  ye  miserable 

Followers,  who  the  things  of  God,  that  should 

Be  brides  of  righteousness, — and  plunderers  ye! — 
Por  silver  and  for  gold  do  prostitute,  * 

Now  it  is  meet  the  truinpet  sound  for  you, 

Because  in  the  third  bolgia  is  your  place  I 


INFERNO,  XIX  75 

We  were  already  at  the  following  tomb,  7 

Mounted  to  that  part  of  the  crag  which  hangs 

Over  the  very  middle  of  the  ditch. 
0  most  high  Wisdom,  how  great  art  Thou  showest  10 

In  heaven,  in  earth,  and  in  the  evil  world, 

And  with  what  justice  doth  Thy  Power  allot ! 
Upon  the  bottom  and  upon  the  sides  13 

I  saw  the  livid  stone  was  full  of  holes. 

All  of  one  size,  and  each  was  circular. 
They  seemed  to  me  not  larger  nor  less  wide  1^ 

Than  those  which  in  my  beautiful  Saint  John 

Are  made  for  stands  for  the  baptizing  priests. 
Not  many  years  since  one  of  these  I  broke  19 

Because  of  someone  perishing  therein; 

Be  this  a  seal  to  undeceive  all  men. 
Forth  from  the  mouth  of  each  projecting  were  22 

A  sinner's  feet,  and  of  his  legs  as  far 

As  to  the  calf;  the  rest  remained  within. 
The  soles  of  all  were,  both  of  them,  on  fire;  25 

Wherefore  so  powerfully  twitched  their  joints,  [grass. 

They  would  have  snapped  green  withes  and  ropes  of 
Just  as  the  flaming  of  things  oiled  is  wont  28 

To  move  upon  the  outer  surface  only, 

Likewise  was  it  with  these  from  heels  to  toes. 
' '  Who  is  that.  Master,  who  torments  himself,  31 

And  twitches  more  than  the  others  of  like  fate," 

Said  I :  ' '  and  whom  a  ruddier  flame  is  sucking  ? ' ' 
And  he  to  me :  ' '  If  thou  wilt  that  I  bear  thee  34 

Down  there,  by  that  more  sloping  bank,  from  him 

Thou  shalt  learn  of  himself  and  of  his  wrongs. ' ' 
And  I:  ''Whatever  thou  wilt,  to  me  is  good.  37 

Thou  art  my  lord,  and  knowest  that  from  thy  will 

I  part  me  not,  and  knowest  what  I  say  not. ' ' 
Then  to  the  fourth  embankment  come,  we  turned  ^^ 


43 


46 


76  THE  DIVINE  COMEDY 

And  went  down  at  the  left  hand  there  below 
Into  the  narrow  bottom  pierced  with  holes. 

Me  the  good  Master  from  his  hip  not  yet 

Set  down,  till  he  had  brought  me  to  the  cleft 
Of  him  who  so  lamented  with  his  shanks. 

''Whoe'er  thou  art  that  hast  thine  upper  part 
Beneath,  0  sad  soul,  planted  like  a  stake, ' ' 
Began  I  saying,  "if  thou  art  able,  speak.'* 

I  stood  there  like  the  friar  who  confesses  *• 

The  treacherous  assassin,  who,  e'en  fixed. 
Recalls  him  and  thereby  retards  his  death ; 

And  he  cried  out :  ' '  Stand  'st  thou  already  there  ?  52 

Stand 'st  thou  already  there,  0  Boniface? 
By  several  years  the  writing  lied  to  me. 

Art  thou  so  quickly  sated  with  that  wealth,  55 

For  which  thou  didst  not  fear  to  seize  by  guile 
The  Lady  beautiful,  and  afterwards 

To  outrage  her?"    Such  I  became  as  those  ^ 

Who  stand,  not  grasping  a  reply  to  them, 
Mocked  as  it  were,  nor  can  themselves  reply. 

Then  Virgil  said : ' '  Say  to  him  quickly,  I  ^1 

•    Am  not  the  one,  am  not  the  one  thou  thinkest." 
And  I  replied  as  was  enjoined  on  me. 

Whereat  with  all  his  might  the  spirit  writhed  ^ 

His  feet;  then  sighing  and  with  tearful  voice 
Said  to  me :  * '  Thou,  what  askest  thou  of  me  ? 

If  to  know  who  I  am  thou  care  so  much  ®^ 

That  thou  hast  for  that  cause  come  down  the  bank, 
Know  that  with  the  Great  Mantle  I  was  vested. 

And  verily  I  was  the  She-bear's  son,  ^® 

So  eager  to  advance  the  whelps,  I  put 
Up  yonder  wealth,  and  here  myself,  in  purse. 

Beneath  my  head  the  others  are  dragged  down  ^ 

Who  had  preceded  me  in  simony, 


INFERNO,  XIX  77 

Now  flattened  through  the  fissures  of  the  rock. 
Down  thither  shall  I  likewise  fall  whene'er  76 

That  one  shall  come  whom  I  believed  thou  wast, 

When  I  did  put  the  question  suddenly. 
But  for  a  longer  time  already  I  .    79 

Have  baked  my  feet  and  been  inverted  thus 

Than  he  is  to  stay  planted  with  red  feet ; 
For  after  him  shall  come,  of  uglier  deed,  S2 

Out  of  the  west  a  shepherd  without  law 

Such  as  befits  to  cover  him  and  me. 
Jason  shall  live  again,  of  whom  men  read  85 

In  Maccabees;  and  as  to  him  was  pliant 

His  king,  so  who  rules  France  shall  be  to  him." 
I  know  not  if  I  was  in  this  too  rash  ^^ 

In  that  I  answered  him  in  just  this  strain: 

''Ah,  tell  me  now  how  great  the  treasure  was 
Our  Lord  required  of  Saint  Peter  ere  ^1 

He  put  the  keys  into  his  custody? 

Naught,  certainly,  except :  '  Follow  thou  me ! ' 
Nor  of  Matthias  asked  Peter  and  the  rest  94 

Silver  or  gold,  when  he  was  chosen  by  lot 

To  take  the  place  the  guilty  soul  had  lost. 
Therefore  stay  thou,  for  thou  art  punished  well ;  ^^ 

And  keep  thou  well  the  ill-acquired  coin. 

Which  against  Charles  caused  thee  to  be  so  bold. 
And  were  I  not  prevented  from  it  still  ^^^ 

By  reverence  for  the  keys  that  are  supreme, 

Which  in  the  joyful  life  thou  hadst  in  keeping, 
I  should  make  use  of  words  still  heavier ;  1^3 

Because  your  avarice  afflicts  the  world, 

Raising  the  bad  and  trampling  on  the  good. 
Of  you  as  shepherds  thought  the  Evangelist  ^^^ 

When  she,  who  on  the  waters  has  her  seat, 

Was  seen  by  him  to  fornicate  with  kings ; 


112 


78  THE  DIVINE  COMEDY 

The  one  that  with  the  seven  heads  was  bom  109 

And  from  the  ten  horns  had  authority 
As  long  as  virtue  to  her  spouse  was  pleasing. 

Of  gold  and  silver  have  ye  made  your  god; 
And  what  else  parts  you  from  idolaters, 
Save  that  they  one,  and  ye  a  hundred  worship? 

Ah,  Constantine,  of  how  much  ill  was  mother  H^ 

Not  thy  conversion,  but  that  gift  of  thine. 
Which  the  first  father  to  be  rich  received!** 

And  while  I  sang  to  him  such  notes  as  these,  1^8 

Whether  it  was  conscience  gnawing  him  or  rage. 
He  ceased  not  kicking  hard  with  both  his  feet. 

I  believe  truly  that  it  pleased  my  Leader,  121 

He  listened  on  with  such  contented  look. 
Hearing  the  sound  of  the  true  words  expressed. 

Therefore  he  took  me  with  both  arms,  and  when  124 

He  had  me  wholly  on  his  breast,  remounted 
Along  the  way  by  which  he  had  come  down; 

Nor  wearied  he  of  keeping  me  so  clasped,  127 

But  bore  me  to  the  summit  of  the  arch. 
The  crossing  from  the  fourth  bank  to  the  fifth. 

And  here  he  gently  set  his  burden  down ;  130 

Gently  upon  the  rock  so  rough  and  steep. 
It  were  a  passage  hard  for  goats ;  and  thence 

Another  deep  vale  was  to  me  discovered. 


CANTO  XX 

Of  a  new  punishment  must  I  make  verses 
And  give  material  to  the  twentieth  canto 
Of  the  first  song,  which  is  of  the  submerged. 

I  was,  as  far  as  might  be,  now  all  placed 
To  gaze  down  into  the  discovered  depth, 
Which  tears  of  anguish  bathed ;  and  I  beheld 


133 


INFERNO,  XX  79 

People  along^  the  round  of  that  great  vale  7 

Come  silent  and  in  tears  at  such  a  pace 

As  in  this  world  the  litanies  maintain. 
And,  as  my  sight  went  lower  down  on  them,  10 

Each  one  appeared  distorted  wondrously 

Between  the  chin  and  where  the  chest  begins ; 
For  toward  the  reins  the  face  was  turned  about,  13 

And  to  move  backwards  now  they  were  compelled, 

For  they  had  been  deprived  of  forward  sight. 
By  force  of  palsy,  it  may  be,  some  one  1® 

Ere  now  has  been  thus  twisted  utterly. 

But  I  have  not  seen  it,  nor  believe  in  it. 
So  may  God  let  thee,  reader,  gather  fruit  19 

From  what  thou  readest,  think  now  for  thyself 

How  I  was  able  to  keep  dry  my  face, 
When  near  at  hand  the  image  of  ourselves  22 

I  saw  so  twisted  that  the  weeping  eyes 

Did  bathe  the  hinder  parts  along  the  cleft! 
Surely  I  wept,  leaning  against  a  rock  25 

Of  the  hard  stone,  so  that  my  Escort  said: 

''Art  thou  even  yet  among  the  other  fools? 
Here  pity  lives  when  it  is  truly  dead.  28 

Who  is  more  criminal  than  he  who  feels 

In  the  presence  of  God's  judgment  passionate? 
Lift  up  thy  head,  lift  up,  and  see  for  whom  31 

The  earth  did  open  in  the  Thebans'  sight. 

Whereat  they  all  cried,  'Whither  fallest  thou, 
Amphiaraus  ?    Why  dost  leave  the  war  ? '  34 

And  he  ceased  not  from  falling  headlong  down 

To  Minos,  who  lays  hold  on  every  one. 
Lo,  of  his  shoulders  he  has  made  a  breast;  37 

Because  he  wished  to  see  too  far  before  him. 

Backward  he  looks,  and  goes  a  backward  path. 
Behold  Tiresias,  who  changed  his  semblance,  40 


80  THE  DIVINE  COMEDY 

When  from  a  male  a  female  he  became, 

Changing  his  members  every  one;  and  then 
It  was  first  needful  that  he  strike  again  ^ 

The  two  entwined  serpents  with  the  rod, 

Ere  he  resume  the  plumage  of  a  male. 
Aruns  is  he  with  back  to  this  one's  belly,  ^ 

Who  in  Lunigian  mountains,  on  which  works 

The  Carrarese  who  has  his  home  below. 
Amid  the  marble's  whiteness  had  the  cave  *• 

For  his  abode;  whence  gazing  at  the  stars. 

Or  out  to  sea,  his  view  was  not  cut  off. 
And  that  one  who,  with  tresses  unconfined  52 

Covers  her  breasts,  which  are  unseen  by  thee, 

And  has  on  that  side  all  her  hairy  skin. 
Was  Manto,  who  had  searched  through  many  lands,  55 

Then  settled  there  where  I  was  born ;  whereof 

It  pleases  me  that  thou  shouldst  hear  a  while. 
After  her  father  had  from  life  departed  ^ 

And  Bacchus'  city  came  to  be  enslaved. 

She  for  a  long  time  roamed  about  the  world. 
Up  in  fair  Italy  there  lies  a  lake,  ^1 

Benaco  named,  and  at  the  foot  of  alps 

That  shut  in  Germany  above  the  Tyrol. 
A  thousand  springs,  I  think,  and  more  'twixt  Garda       64 

And  Val  Camonica  bathe  Apennino 

With  water  which  in  that  lake  comes  to  rest. 
A  place  is  in  the  middle  there,  where  might  ^^ 

The  Trentine  pastor,  that  of  Brescia,  or 

Verona's  bless,  if  he  should  pass  that  way. 
Peschiera  sits,  a  fortress  fair  and  strong,  70 

To  front  the  Brescians  and  the  Bergamasks, 

There  where  the  shore  is  lowest  round  about. 
What  in  Benaco 's  bosom  may  not  bide  78 

Must  wholly  thence  pour  forth,  and  make  itself 


INFERNO,  XX  81 

A  river  downward  through  green  pasture-lands. 
Soon  as  the  water  gathers  head  to  flow,  76 

It  is  no  more  Benaco  called,  but  Mincio 

Down  to  Governo  where  it  joins  the  Po. 
It  flows  not  far  before  it  finds  a  plain,  79 

In  which  it  spreads,  making  a  swamp,  and  wont 

In  summer  to  be  noisome  now  and  then. 
Passing  that  way  the  cruel  virgin  saw  82 

Land  in  the  middle  of  the  fen,  that  showed 

No  tilth  and  of  inhabitants  was  bare; 
There,  to  avoid  all  human  fellowship,  85 

Stayed  with  her  servants,  practising  her  arts, 

And  lived,  and  left  her  body  empty  there. 
Later  the  men,  who  round  about  were  scattered,  ^8 

Collected  at  that  place,  and  it  was  strong 

By  reason  of  the  marsh  on  every  side. 
They  built  the  city  over  those  dead  bones ;  ^1 

And  for  the  one  who  first  did  choose  the  place, 

Mantua  called  it  without  other  lot. 
The  population  once  was  denser  there  ^^ 

Ere  Casalodi  through  stupidity 

Had  lost  his  rights  by  Pinamonte's  guile. 
Therefore  I  tell  thee,  shouldst  thou  ever  hear  ^7 

My  city  given  other  origin. 

So  that  no  falsehood  may  defraud  the  truth. '* 
And  I :  ' '  Master,  thy  discourse  is  to  me  1^0 

So  certain,  and  takes  such  hold  on  my  faith, 

That  others'  would  be  to  me  coals  burnt  out. 
But  tell  me  of  the  people  moving  on,  103 

If  thou  seest  anyone  worthy  of  note; 

Because  to  that  alone  my  mind  reverts.'' 
Then  said  he  to  me :  "  He  who  from  his  cheeks  106 

Stretches  his  beard  over  his  dusky  shoulders, 

Was  once,  when  Greece  was  so  devoid  of  males, 


82  THE  DIVINE  COMEDY 

Scarcely  were  any  for  the  cradles  left,  109 

An  augur;  and  with  Calchas  fixed  the  moment 
"When  the  first  cable  should  be  cut  at  Aulis. 

He  was  Eurypylus;  of  him  so-named  112 

My  lofty  Tragedy  in  some  place  sings; 
Well  thou  knowest  this,  who  knowest  the  whole  of  it. 

That  other  one,  who  is  about  the  flanks  115 

So  slight,  was  Michael  Scot;  and  verily 
He  understood  the  play  of  magic  frauds. 

Behold  Guido  Bonatti,  behold  Asdente,  118 

Who  now  would  wish  he  had  attended  to 
His  thread  and  leather,  but  repents  too  late. 

Behold  the  wretched  women  who  left  needle,  121 

Shuttle  and  spindle,  fortune-tellers  grown. 
And  working  spells  with  herbs  and  images. 

But  come  now,  for  already  with  his  thorns,  12* 

Cain  holds  the  confines  of  both  hemispheres, 
And  below  Seville  touches  now  the  wave. 

And  yesternight  the  moon  was  round  already;  127 

That  must  thou  well  remember,  for  one  time 
In  the  deep  wood  she  did  not  do  thee  harm.** 

Thus  spoke  he  to  me,  and  we  walked  meanwhile.  1^0 

CANTO  XXI 

Prom  bridge  to  bridge,  talking  of  other  things 
Of  which  my  comedy  cares  not  to  sing. 
Thus  we  came  on,  and  held  the  summit,  when 

We  stopped  to  see  of  Malebolge's  clefts  * 

The  next,  and  the  next  lamentations  vain; 
And  wonderfully  dark  I  saw  it  was. 

As  boils  in  the  Venetians'  arsenal  ^ 

In  winter  the  tenacious  pitch,  to  pay 
Their  unsound  ships  that  they  can  sail  no  more, 


INFERNO,  XXI  83 

And  in  their  stead,  one  makes  him  a  new  ship,  10 

Another  caulks  the  ribs  of  one  which  had 

Made  many  voyages;  one  at  the  prow 
Is  hammering,  another  at  the  stem;  13 

One  twisting  cordage,  and  one  making  oars ; 

And  one  is  patching  sails,  foresail  and  main : 
So,  not  by  fire  but  by  some  art  divine  16 

There  was  a  thick  pitch  boiling  there  below. 

That  smeared  the  bank  like  glue  on  every  side. 
Itself  I  saw,  but  saw  within  it  naught  19 

But  bubbles  that  the  boiling  caused  to  rise. 

The  whole  now  swollen,  now  settled  back  compressed. 
While  I  was  gazing  down  there  fixedly,  22 

My  Leader,  saying,  ' '  Beware,  beware ! ' '  drew  me 

Up  to  himself  from  that  place  where  I  stood. 
Then  I  turned  round  as  one  who  longs  to  see  25 

The  thing  from  which  he  is  obliged  to  fly. 

And  whom  a  sudden  fear  robs  of  his  strength, 
So  that  to  see  he  tarries  not,  but  starts;  28 

And  saw  behind  us  that  a  devil,  black, 

"Was  coming,  running  up  along  the  rock. 
Ah,  in  his  aspect  what  ferocity !  31 

How  bitter  he  appeared  to  me  in  act. 

With  wings  outspread,  and  light  upon  his  feet! 
Upon  his  shoulder,  which  was  sharp  and  high,  34 

A  sinner  with  both  haunches  was  the  load. 

And  of  his  feet  he  held  the  sinews  clutched. 
* '  0  Malebranche, ' '  said  he  from  our  bridge,  37 

' '  Here  is  one  of  Santa  Zita  's  ancients ;  put  thou  him 

Under,  for  I  am  going  back  for  more. 
To  that  town  I  have  stocked  so  well  with  them.  40 

There,  save  Bonturo,  all  are  barrators. 

A  No  for  money  there  is  made  a  Yes." 
Down  there  he  hurled  him,  and  turned  back  along  43 


84  THE  DIVINE  COMEDY 

The  hard  rock;  and  a  mastiff  loosed  was  ne'er 

In  such  a  haste  to  follow  up  a  thief. 
That  one  sank  under;  then  rose,  doubled  up.  *• 

The  demons,  though,  that  had  the  bridge  for  cover, 

Cried:  ''Here  the  holy  face  is  not  in  place; 
The  swimming  here  is  not  as  in  the  Serchio ;  ^ 

Therefore,  unless  thou  longest  for  our  hooks, 

Come  not  above  the  surface  of  the  pitch. ' ' 
Then  with  a  hundred  prongs  and  more  they  struck  him,  52 

And  said :  ' '  It  is  well  that  thou  dance  covered  here. 

So  that  thou  thieve  in  secret,  if  thou  canst.  *' 
Not  otherwise  cooks  have  their  scullions  plunge  55 

The  meat  into  the  middle  of  the  pot 

With  hooks,  in  order  that  it  may  not  float. 
And  the  good  Master  said  to  me :  ' '  So  that  58 

It  may  not  seem  that  thou  art  here,  squat  down 

Behind  a  crag,  and  so  have  thee  a  screen. 
And  whatsoe'er  offence  be  done  to  me,  •! 

Have  thou  no  fear,  for  I  know  these  things  well, 

As  in  such  contest  I  have  been  ere  now. ' ' 
Then  he  passed  on,  beyond  the  bridge 's  head ;  W 

And  as  he  reached  the  bank  that  was  the  sixth, 

Then  he  had  need  to  have  a  steadfast  front. 
With  that  rage  and  with  that  tempestuousness  ^'^ 

With  which  the  dogs  rush  forth  on  the  poor  man 

Who  of  a  sudden  begs  where  he  has  stopped, 
These  issued  forth  from  'neath  the  little  bridge,  70 

And  turned  against  him  all  their  grappling-hooks ; 

But  he  cried  out :  '  *  Let  none  of  you  be  harmful ! 
Before  your  hook  takes  hold  of  me,  let  one  73 

Come  forward  from  among  you,  and  give  ear, 

And  then  devise  as  to  your  grappling  me." 
They  all  cried  out :  '  *  Let  Malacoda  go ! "  76 

Whereat  one  moved,  the  others  standing  firm, 


INFERNO,  XXI  85 

And  came  to  him,  saying :  ' '  How  helps  it  him  ? ' ' 

* '  Dost  thou  think,  Malacoda,  that  thou  seest  79 

Me  coming  hither, ' '  said  my  Master,  '  *  safe 
Already  from  all  hindrances  of  yours. 

Without  intent  divine  and  favoring  fate?  82 

Let  me  go  on,  for  it  is  willed  in  heaven 
That  I  shall  show  another  this  wild  road.*' 

Then  was  his  arrogance  so  fallen  that  85 

His  hook  he  left  to  drop  down  at  his  feet. 
And  told  the  rest:  ''Now  let  him  not  be  struck.'' 

My  Leader  said  to  me :  "  0  thou  that  sittest  88 

Mid  the  great  splinters  of  the  ridge,  crouching. 
Crouching,  in  safety  now  return  to  me." 

Wherefore  I  moved,  and  quickly  came  to  him;  ^1 

And  then  the  devils  all  pressed  forward  so 
That  I  feared  lest  their  compact  be  not  kept. 

And  thus  I  once  saw  foot-soldiers  afraid,  ^* 

That  came  by  compact  from  Caprona  forth 
And  saw  so  many  enemies  about. 

I  drew  with  my  whole  person  close  beside  ^^ 

My  Leader,  and  tunned  not  away  my  eyes 
From  their  appearances,  which  were  not  good ; 

For,  lowering  their  grapples,  one  would  ask  100 

Another:  "Wilt  thou  that  I  touch  his  rump?" 
And  they  would  answer:  "Yes,  give  him  a  nick!" 

That  demon,  though,  who  was  conversing  with  ^03 

My  Leader,  turned  in  instant  readiness 
And  said:  "Be  quiet,  quiet,  Scarmiglione ! " 

Then  said  to  us :  "  One  can  no  further  go  106 

Along  this  rock,  because  the  sixth  arch  lies 
All  broken  into  fragments  in  the  depths. 

And  if  it  please  you  still  to  go  ahead,  109 

Go  on  along  this  ridge ;  near  by  there  is 
Another  rock  that  furnishes  a  way. 


86  THE  DIVINE  COMEDY 

Later  than  this  by  five  hours  yesterday  112 

Filled  out  a  thousand  years,  two  hundred,  six 
And  sixty  since  the  way  was  broken  here. 

In  that  direction  I  am  sending  some  115 

Of  these  of  mine,  to  see  if  any  air 
Themselves;  go  with  them,  they  will  not  be  bad. 

Come  forward,  Alichino,  Calcabrina,  118 

And  thou,  Cagnazzo,'*  he  began  to  say; 
''And,  Barbariccia,  do  thou  guide  the  ten. 

Come,  Libicocco,  too,  and  Draghignazzo,  121 

Tusked  Ciriatto  and  Graffiacane, 
And  Farfarello,  and  mad  Rubicante. 

Search  ye  the  boiling  pitch  around ;  let  these  124 

Be  safe  as  far  as  to  the  other  crag 
"Which  all  unbroken  goes  above  the  dens." 

* '  0  me !    What  is  it.  Master,  that  I  see  ? "  127 

Said  I ;  "ah,  without  escort  let  us  go 
Alone,  if  thou  knowest  how.    I  want  it  not 

For  me.    If  thou  art  wary,  as  it  is  130 

Thy  wont  to  be,  seest  thou  not  that  they  grin, 
And  with  their  brows  are  threatening  us  with  harm?" 

And  he  to  me :  *  *  I  would  not  have  thee  fear ;  133 

Let  them  keep  grinning,  just  at  their  own  will, 
For  they  do  that  at  those  who  boil  in  pain. '  * 

Upon  the  left  bank  then  they  made  a  turn ;  136 

But  first  had  each  one  pressed  between  his  teeth 
His  tongue,  toward  their  leader  for  a  sign, 

And  he  had  made  a  trumpet  of  his  rump.  139 

CANTO  XXII 

I  HAVE  seen  horsemen  ere  now  moving  camp, 
Begin  assaulting,  do  their  mustering, 
And  sometimes  making  off  for  their  escape; 


INFERNO,  XXII  87 


I  have  seen  riders  over  land  of  yours,  * 

0  Aretines,  and  seen  the  raids  go  on, 
Arms  clash  at  tournaments,  and  j  ousters  tilt, 

At  times  with  trumpets,  and  at  times  with  bells,  '' 

With  drums,  and  signals  from  a  castle  given, 
And  with  familiar  and  with  foreign  things; 

But  ne'er  to  so  perverse  wind-instrument  10 

Have  I  seen  horsemen  move,  nor  men  on  foot. 
Nor  ship  by  sign  of  land  or  of  a  star. 

"With  the  ten  demons  we  were  going  on;  13 

Ah,  horrid  company!  but,  in  the  church 
With  saints,  in  taverns  with  the  gluttonous. 

I  was  attentive  only  to  the  pitch,  1^ 

To  see  the  whole  condition  of  the  bolgia 
And  of  the  people  that  were  burning  there. 

Just  as  the  dolphins,  when  they  gave  a  sign  1^ 

To  sailors  by  the  arching  of  their  backs, 
That  they  may  give  their  thought  to  save  their  ship : 

So,  to  alleviate  the  pain  at  times,  22 

One  of  the  sinners  brought  his  back  in  sight 
And  hid  it  in  less  time  than  lightning  takes. 

As  at  the  edge  of  water  in  a  ditch  25 

The  frogs  will  stay  with  just  their  muzzles  out, 
So  that  they  hide  their  feet  and  other  bulk : 

So  were  the  sinners  staying  on  all  sides ;  28 

But  soon  as  Barbariccia  drew  near. 
Beneath  the  boiling  they  would  draw  them  back. 

I  saw, — and  my  heart  shudders  at  it  still, —  31 

One  waiting  so,  as  it  will  happen  that. 
While  one  frog  stays,  another  jumps  away: 

And  Graffiacane,  who  was  nearest  him, 
Struck  in  his  hook  into  his  pitchy  locks 
And  drew  him  up,  an  otter  as  it  seemed. 

I  knew  the  name  already  of  each  one,  37 


34 


88  THE  DIVINE  COMEDY 

I  had  so  noted  them  when  they  were  chosen, 

And  when  they  called  each  other,  listened  how. 
*'0  Rubicante,  see  thou  set  thy  claws  40 

Into  his  back  so  that  thou  take  his  skin," 

Cried  out  together  all  the  accursed  ones. 
And  I:  ''My  Master,  if  thou  canst,  so  do  *3 

That  thou  mayst  learn  who  is  the  unlucky  one. 

Thus  come  into  his  adversaries'  hands.'* 
My  Leader  drew  close  to  his  side,  and  asked  ^ 

Of  him  whence  he  had  come ;  and  he  replied : 

'*I  was  bom  in  the  kingdom  of  Navarre. 
My  mother  placed  me  servant  to  a  lord,  *^ 

For  she  had  borne  me  to  a  ribald  father, 

Destroyer  of  himself  and  of  his  goods. 
Then  servant  of  good  king  Thibault  was  I ;  52 

There  set  myself  to  practise  barratry, 

Of  which  I  give  accounting  in  this  heat." 
And  Ciriatto,  from  whose  mouth  came  forth  55 

On  either  side  a  tusk,  as  from  a  hog's. 

Made  him  to  feel  how  one  of  them  could  rip. 
The  mouse  was  fallen  among  evil  cats;  58 

But  Barbariccia  closed  him  in  his  arms, 

And  said:  ** Stand  off,  while  I  have  him  enforked," 
And  to  my  Master  turned  his  face  and  said :  61 

* '  Ask  further,  if  thou  wilt  learn  more  from  him 

Before  some  other  one  undo  him  quite." 
The  Leader :  '  *  Then  tell  now  of  the  other  sinners ;  ^^ 

Dost  thou  know  anyone  beneath  the  pitch, 

Who  is  Italian  ? ' '    And  he :  *  *  I  just  now 
Parted  from  one,  a  neighbor,  there  beyond;  ^7 

Would  I  were  still  with  him  so  covered  up 

That  I  should  have  no  fear  of  claw  or  hook!" 
And  Libicocco  said:  **We  have  endured  70 

Too  much ; ' '  and  with  the  hook  so  seized  his  arm, 


INFERNO,  XXII  89 

He  bore  away  a  piece  of  flesh,  torn  off. 
And  Draghignazzo  too  would  fain  have  clutched  73 

Down  at  his  legs;  round  their  decurion 

Did  turn  at  that  with  evil  in  his  look. 
"When  they  had  been  a  little  pacified,  76 

Of  him  who  still  was  gazing  at  his  wound 

My  Leader  asked  without  delay:  ''Who  was 
The  one  from  whom  thou  say  est  that  thou  mad'st  79 

A  parting  that  was  ill,  to  come  ashore?'' 

And  he  made  answer :  "  It  was  Friar  Gomita, 
He  of  Gallura,  vessel  of  all  fraud,  82 

Who  had  his  lord's  foes  in  his  hand,  and  dealt 

So  with  them,  that  each  praises  him  therefor. 
Money  he  took  and  let  them  plainly  go,  85 

As  he  has  said;  in  other  duties  too 

No  petty  barrator,  but  sovereign,  he. 
With  him  associates  Don  Michel  Zanche  88 

Of  Logodoro;  and  their  tongues  are  ne'er 

Weary  of  talking  of  Sardinia. 
0  me !    Look  at  the  other  one  who  grins !  81 

I  would  say  more,  biit  I  am  fearful  lest 

He  be  preparing  now  to  scratch  my  scurf." 
And  the  great  Marshal  turned  to  Farfarello,  8* 

Whose  eyes  were  rolling,  as  if  he  would  strike, 

And  said : ' '  Make  off  from  here,  thou  wicked  bird ! ' ' 
*'If  it  be  your  desire  to  see  or  hear,"  97 

The  terrified  one  then  began  again, 

' '  Tuscans  or  Lombards  I  will  have  some  come. 
But  let  the  Malebranche  stay  awhile  100 

Apart,  that  these  their  vengeance  may  not  fear; 

And  I,  while  sitting  in  this  very  place, 
For  one  that  I  am,  will  have  seven  come  103 

When  I  shall  whistle,  as  our  custom  is 

To  do,  when  one  of  us  is  rising  out." 


90  THE  DIVINE  COMEDY 

Cagnazzo  raised  his  muzzle  at  such  speech,  l^^ 

Shaking  his  head,  and  said :  * '  Hear  the  sly  trick 
He  has  thought  out  for  rushing  down  below ! ' ' 

He  thereupon,  who  had  great  wealth  of  snares,  109 

Replied:  ** Given  to  tricks  am  I  too  much, 
When  I  procure  my  comrades  greater  sorrow. '* 

Then  Alichino  held  not  in,  but  said  1^2 

To  him,  against  the  others'  will:  **If  thou  ^ 

Plunge  down,  I  will  not  gallop  after  thee, 

But  I  will  beat  my  wings  above  the  pitch ;  115 

Leave  we  the  ridge,  and  be  the  bank  a  screen. 
To  see  if  thou  alone  prevail  o'er  us." 

0  thou  who  readest,  thou  shalt  hear  new  sport!  H^ 

Each  turned  his  eyes  toward  the  other  side ; 
He  first  who  was  most  angry  so  to  do. 

The  Navarrese  chose  well  his  time,  his  feet  1^1 

Set  firmly  on  the  ground,  and  instantly 
Leaping,  had  from  their  purpose  freed  himself. 

At  this  each  one  of  them  felt  stung  with  fault,  124 

But  he  the  most  who  caused  the  loss;  and  so 
He  started  forth,  and  cried  out:  ''Thou  art  caught!'' 

But  it  availed  him  little,  for  the  wings  127 

Could  not  outstrip  the  fear;  that  one  went  under, 
This  one  turned  upward,  as  he  flew,  his  breast. 

Not  otherwise  the  wild  duck  suddenly  130 

Dives  under  when  the  falcon  has  drawn  near, 
Who  upward  turns  again,  rumpled  and  vexed. 

Then  Calcabrina,  angered  at  the  cheat,  1^3 

Kept  flying  on  behind  him,  charmed  to  have 
That  one  escaped,  that  he  might  have  a  scuffle. 

And  when  the  barrator  had  disappeared,  13^ 

He  turned  upon  his  fellow  with  his  claws 
And  grappled  with  him  there  above  the  ditch. 

But  that  one  was  indeed  a  hawk  full-grown  i^d 


INFERNO,  XXIII  91 

To  claw  him  well,  and  both  of  them  fell  down 
Into  the  middle  of  the  boiling  pool. 

The  heat  was  an  ungrappler,  suddenly;  142 

But  yet  to  raise  themselves  was  not  to  be, 
They  had  their  wings  so  sticky  with  the  pitch. 

Then  Barbariccia, — all  his  troop  distressed, —  1^5 

Had  four  of  them  fly  to  the  other  side 
With  all  the  drag-hooks,  and  right  speedily 

This  side  and  that  they  went  down  to  their  posts ;  1^8 

They  stretched  their  hooks  out  toward  the  two  belimed, 
Who  were  already  cooked  within  the  crust; 

And  thus  we  left  them  in  their  troubled  plight.  1^1 


CANTO  XXIII 

Silent,  alone,  and  without  company 

One  following  the  other,  we  went  on. 

As  Minor  friars  go  along  the  way. 
My  thought  was  by  the  present  quarrel  turned  ^ 

Upon  the  fable  in  which  Aesop  told 

About  the  frog  and  mouse ;  for  now  is  not 
More  like  this  instant,  than  the  one  case  was  7 

To  the  other,  if  one  rightly  coupled  both 

End  and  beginning  with  attentive  mind. 
And  as  one  thought  bursts  from  another,  so  10 

From  that  one  there  was  born  another  then, 

Which  made  my  first  fear  double.    Thus  I  thought : 
*'It  is  through  us  that  these  are  put  to  scorn,  13 

With  injury  and  with  such  mockery 

As  I  believe  must  give  them  much  offence. 
If  anger  to  ill-will  be  added  on,  16 

They  will  come  after  us  more  cruel  than 

The  dog  is  to  the  hare  that  he  snaps  up.'' 


92  THE  DIVINE  COMEDY 

Already  I  could  feel  my  hair  aU  rise  1^ 

With  fear,  keeping  intent  on  aught  behind  us, 

When  I  said:  ''Master,  if  thou  speedily 
Do  not  conceal  thyself  and  me,  I  dread  22 

The  Malebranche;  they  are  after  us 

Already;  I  in  fancy  feel  them  now.'' 
And  that  one :  *  *  If  I  were  of  leaded  glass  25 

I  should  no  quicker  draw  unto  myself 

Thy  form  without,  than  I  take  that  within. 
Thy  thoughts  but  now  were  coming  among  mine,  28 

The  same  in  act,  and  in  their  look  the  same, 

So  that  with  both  I  made  a  single  plan. 
In  case  the  bank  upon  our  right  so  lies  31 

That  we  in  the  other  bolgia  can  go  down, 

We  shall  escape  from  the  imagined  chase." 
He  had  not  finished  stating  such  a  plan. 

When  I  saw  them  come  on  with  wings  outspread 

Not  far  away,  intent  on  seizing  us. 
My  Leader  suddenly  took  hold  of  me. 

Like  as  a  mother  wakened  by  the  noise. 

Who  sees  close  to  her  the  enkindled  flames, 
And  takes  her  son,  and  flies,  and  tarries  not, —  ^ 

Having  more  thought  of  him  than  of  herself, — 

So  long  as  only  to  put  on  a  shift ; 
And,  downward  from  the  ridge  of  the  hard  bank,  *3 

Supine,  he  gave  himself  to  the  sloping  rock. 

Which  walls  the  other  bolgia  on  one  side. 
Never  did  water  through  a  conduit  run  *• 

At  such  a  speed  to  turn  a  land-mill's  wheel, 

When  it  is  nearest  to  the  paddle-boards. 
As  did  my  Master  o  'er  that  bordering  slope,  *• 

Who  carried  me  along  upon  his  breast, 

Not  as  companion,  but  as  his  own  son. 
His  feet  had  scarcely  in  the  depth  below 


84 


87 


62 


INFERNO,  XXIII  93 

The  bottom  touched,  when  those  were  on  the  height 

Above  us;  but  there  was  no  need  of  fear, 
For  the  high  Providence  that  willed  to  set  55 

Them  as  the  ministers  of  the  fifth  ditch, 

Deprived  them  of  all  power  of  going  thence. 
We  found  a  painted  people  there  below,  58 

With  very  slow  steps,  going  round  in  tears, 

And  with  a  look  weary  and  overcome. 
They  had  cloaks  on  with  hoods  that  came  down  low  ^1 

Before  their  eyes,  and  in  such  fashion  made 

As  in  Cologne  they  make  them  for  the  monks. 
They  outwardly  are  gilded  so,  it  dazzles;  64 

Within,  all  lead,  and  of  such  weight  that  those 

Which  Frederick  put  on  were  as  of  straw. 

0  mantle,  wearisome  eternally!  67 
We  turned  still  ever  to  the  left  along 

With  them,  intent  upon  their  tearful  plaint. 
But,  weary  with  the  weight,  those  people  came  70 

So  slowly  onward,  that  our  company 

Was  fresh  at  every  movement  of  the  hip. 
Wherefore  I  to  my  Leader :  ' '  Find,  I  pray,  73 

Some  one  who  may  by  deed  or  name  be  known. 

And,  as  we  go,  move  thou  thine  eyes  around." 
And  one  who  understood  the  Tuscan  speech,  76 

Called  to  us  from  behind :  ' '  Stay  ye  your  feet, 

Ye  w^ho  do  run  so  through  this  dusky  air ; 
Perhaps  from  me  thou  shalt  get  what  thou  seekest."        79 

Whereat  the  Leader  turned  about  and  said: 

''Wait,  and  according  to  his  pace  proceed." 

1  stopped,  and  saw  two  show  great  haste  of  mind,  82 
By  looks,  to  be  with  me ;  but  they  moved  slowly, 
Because  so  burdened  in  the  narrow  way. 

When  they  had  joined  us,  long,  with  eyes  askance  ^5 

They  looked  at  me  without  a  word;  then  turned 


94  THE  DIVINE  COMEDY 

To  one  another,  and  between  them  said: 
*  *  By  the  action  of  his  throat  this  one  seems  living ;  88 

If  they  are  dead,  then  by  what  privilege 

Go  they  uncovered  by  the  heavy  stole?" 
Then  said  to  me:  "0  Tuscan,  who  hast  reached  ^^ 

The  college  of  the  wretched  hypocrites. 

Disdain  not  telling  who  thou  art."    And  I 
To  them:  "I  had  my  birth  and  I  grew  up  ^4 

In  the  great  city  by  fair  Arno's  stream. 

And  I  am  with  that  body  always  mine. 
But  who  are  ye,  in  whom  such  pain  sends  down,  97 

As  I  behold,  its  drops  along  your  cheeks? 

What  punishment  is  on  you  glittering  so?" 
And  one  replied  to  me:  "The  orange  hoods  ^00 

Are  laden,  and  so  thick  are  they,  the  weights 

Are  making  thus  their  balances  to  creak. 
Jovial  Friars  were  we  and  Bolognese.  103 

I  Catalano,  Loderingo  he 

By  name,  together  by  thy  city  taken, 
As  it  is  wont  to  choose  one  man  alone,  10^ 

To  guard  its  peace;  and  we  were  such,  as  still 

Appears  by  the  Gardingo's  neighborhood." 
*'0  Friars,"  I  began,  ''your  evil  deeds—"  109 

But  said  no  more,  because  my  eye  caught  one 

Upon  the  ground  with  three  stakes  crucified. 
When  he  saw  me,  no  part  of  him  but  writhed,  112 

As  he  with  sighing  blew  into  his  beard ; 

And  Friar  Catalano  noting  this. 
Said :  *  *  The  transfixed  one,  whom  thou  look  'st  at  told       1 15 

The  Pharisees  it  was  expedient 

To  put  one  man  to  torture  for  the  people. 
Traverse  and  naked  is  he  on  the  road,  118 

As  thou  dost  see,  and  he  is  forced  to  feel 

Whoever  passes,  how  much  he  weighs,  first. 


INFERNO,  XXIV  95 

And  in  like  manner  suffers  in  this  ditch  121 

His  father-in-law,  and  all  the  council  else. 

Which  was  a  seed  of  evil  for  the  Jews/' 
Then  saw  I  Virgil  greatly  wondering  124 

Above  the  one  who  was  as  on  a  cross 

So  vilely  in  the  eternal  exile  stretched. 
Thereafter  he  addressed  the  Friar  thus :  127 

' '  Be  not  displeased  to  tell  us,  if  ye  may. 

If  on  the  right  lies  any  opening. 
By  which  we  two  can  go  our  way  from  here  1^0 

Without  enforcing  the  Black  Angels'  power 

To  come  and  extricate  us  from  this  deep." 
He  answered  then:  ** Nearer  than  thou  dost  hope  ^^^ 

There  is  a  rock  from  the  great  circling  wall 

That  starts  and  all  the  cruel  valleys  spans. 
Save  that  at  this  one  it  is  broken  down  136 

And  covers  it  not ;  its  ruins  ye  can  mount ; 

They  lie  a-slope  and  heap  up  at  the  base." 
The  Leader  stood  a  while  with  head  bowed  down ;  139 

Then  said :  ' '  The  business  was  ill  told  by  him, 

Who  hooks  the  sinners  yonder."    And  the  Friar: 
"Oft  in  Bologna  I  heard  men  assign  142 

The  devil  vices  many,  among  which 

I  heard  that  he  tells  lies,  and  is  their  father." 
And  then  the  Leader  with  great  steps  went  on,  145 

Somewhat  disturbed,  with  anger  in  his  look; 

Whereon  I  parted  from  the  burdened  ones. 
Following  the  prints  of  the  beloved  feet.  148 

CANTO  XXIV 

In  that  part  of  the  young  year  when  the  sun 
Tempers  his  locks  beneath  Aquarius 
And  now  the  nights  are  moving  toward  the  south, 


96  THE  DIVINE  COMEDY 

When  the  hoar-frost,  like  to  a  copyist,  * 

Draws  his  white  sister's  image  on  the  ground. 
Though  briefly  lasts  the  temper  of  his  pen, 

The  peasant,  who  has  little  fodder  left,  7 

Rises  and  looks,  and  sees  the  plain  all  white, 
Whereat  he  smites  upon  his  thigh ;  goes  back 

Into  his  house,  and  to  and  fro  complains,  10 

Like  the  poor  wretch  who  knows  not  what  to  do; 
Then  coming  out  again  recovers  hope. 

Seeing  the  world  to  have  an  altered  face  15 

In  little  time,  and  takes  his  shepherd's  crook 
And  forth  the  tender  sheep  to  pasture  drives: 

Thus  had  the  Master  caused  dismay  in  me,  1^ 

When  I  beheld  him  so  disturbed  in  brow; 
Thus  quickly  to  the  hurt  the  plaster  came. 

Because,  when  we  had  reached  the  ruined  bridge,  1^ 

The  Leader  turned  to  me  with  that  sweet  look. 
Which  I  saw  first  when  at  the  mountain's  foot. 

His  arms  he  opened,  following  some  plan  22 

Himself  had  chosen,  looking  carefully 
At  first  upon  the  ruin,  and  seized  me. 

And  like  to  one  who  works  and  estimates,  25 

Who  always  seems  beforehand  to  provide, 
So,  as  he  lifted  me  toward  the  top 

Of  one  great  rock,  he  eyed  another  splinter,  ^ 

Saying:  "On  that  one  next  seize  hold,  but  first 
See  if  it  be  such  as  will  bear  thy  weight.** 

It  was  no  way  for  one  clothed  with  a  cloak,  W 

For  scarcely  we,  he  light,  and  I  pushed  up, 
Could  mount  from  jutting  rock  to  jutting  rock. 

And  were  it  not  that  on  that  boundary  34 

The  slope  was  shorter  than  upon  the  other, — 
I  know  not  about  him, — I  were  foredone. 

But  since  the  whole  of  Malebolge  slopes  '7 


INFERNO,  XXIV  97 

Toward  the  opening  of  the  lowest  pit, 

The  site  of  every  valley  brings  about 
That  one  side  rises  more,  the  other  less;  40 

However,  we  at  last  attained  the  point 

Where  the  least  stone  of  all  is  broken  off. 
The  breath  had  been  from  out  my  lungs  so  milked  ^3 

When  I  was  up,  that  further  I  could  not ; 

Nay,  on  my  first  arriving,  sat  me  down. 
'* Henceforth  thou  must  thus  rid  thyself  of  sloth,*'  ^^ 

The  Master  said;  "for  one  comes  not  to  fame 

On  downy  seat  or  under  coverlet; 
Without  which  whoso  does  consume  his  life,  49 

Such  vestige  upon  earth  leaves  of  himself 

As  smoke  in  air,  and  in  the  water  foam; 
And  therefore  rise,  conquer  thy  panting  with  52 

The  spirit  that  in  every  battle  wins, 

If  with  its  heavy  body  it  sink  not. 
A  longer  stairway  must  be  climbed;  it  is  not  55 

Enough  to  have  left  these;  if  thou  dost  grasp 

My  thought,  now  act  so  that  it  profit  thee.'* 
Then  I  rose  up,  showing  that  I  with  breath  58 

Was  better  furnished  than  I  felt,  and  said: 

*'Go  on;  I  am  courageous  now  and  strong." 
We  took  our  upward  way  along  the  rock,  01 

Which  was  here  rugged,  narrow,  difficult. 

And  steeper  far  than  was  the  one  before. 
Not  to  seem  weak  I  talked  as  I  went  on ;  64 

Whereon  from  the  next  foss  a  voice  came  out. 

Ill-fitted  to  articulate  its  words. 
I  know  not  what  it  said,  though  I  had  reached  07 

The  middle  of  the  arch  which  crosses  here; 

But  he  who  spoke  the  words  seemed  moved  to  wrath. 
I  had  turned  downward,  but  my  living  eyes  70 

Could  not  go  to  the  bottom  through  the  dark. 


98  THE  DIVINE  COMEDY 

Whereat  I:  ''Master,  see  that  thou  do  reach 

The  other  ring ;  let  us  go  down  the  wall ;  78 

As,  listening  hence,  I  do  not  understand; 
So  I  look  down,  and  can  distinguish  naught.*' 

* '  Other  reply, ' '  said  he,  ' '  I  make  thee  not,  76 

Except  in  act;  because  the  fair  request 
Should  be  in  silence  followed  by  the  deed." 

We  went  on  down  the  bridge  to  where  its  head  79 

Is  with  the  eighth  embankment  joined ;  and  then 
The  bolgia  was  made  manifest  to  me; 

And  I  saw  there  within  a  terrible  82 

Thronging  of  serpents  of  a  kind  so  strange, 
That  still  the  memory  congeals  my  blood. 

Let  Lybia  boast  no  longer  with  her  sand;  85 

For  though  chelydri,  jaculi,  phareae, 
Cenchri  with  amphisbaena,  she  bring  forth, 

She  never  with  all  Ethiopia,  88 

Nor  with  the  land  that  by  the  Red  Sea  lies, 
Has  shown  so  many  plagues,  nor  yet  so  dire. 

Amid  this  cruel  and  most  dismal  swarm  W 

Were  naked  people  running,  terrified. 
And  without  hope  of  hole  or  heliotrope. 

With  serpents  were  their  hands  behind  them  bound;      ^4 
And  these  were  thrusting  through  their  loins  the  tail 
And  head,  and  were  in  front  in  knotted  coils. 

And  lo !  at  one  who  was  beside  our  bank,  ^ 

Darted  a  serpent  and  transfixed  him  there. 
Where  to  the  shoulders  knotted  is  the  neck. 

Never  was  0  nor  I  so  quickly  writ,  IW) 

As  he  caught  fire  and  burned,  and  utterly 
To  ashes  turned,  perforce,  as  he  fell  down ; 

And  when  he  was  thus  on  the  ground  destroyed,  ^^ 

The  dust  did  draw  together  of  itself, 
And  turned  to  that  same  one  again  at  once. 


INFERNO,  XXIV  99 

In  such  a  way,  great  sages  have  affirmed,  106 

The  Phoenix  dies,  and  then  is  born  again 

When  she  draws  near  to  her  five  hundredth  year ; 
In  life  she  feeds  on  neither  herb  nor  grain,  1^9 

But  only  tears  of  incense  and  amomum ; 

And  nard  and  myrrh  are  her  last  winding-sheet. 
And  like  the  one  who  falls  and  knows  not  how,  112 

By  demon-force,  which  drags  him  to  the  ground, 

Or  by  obstruction  else  that  binds  a  man 
When  he  gets  up,  so  that  he  gazes  round  115 

Wholly  bewildered  by  the  great  distress 

That  he  has  suffered  from,  and,  looking,  sighs ; 
Such  was  that  sinner  after  he  had  risen.  118 

Power  of  God !    Oh,  how  severe  it  is. 

That  showers  down  for  vengeance  blows  like  these ! 
The  Leader  then  asked  of  him  who  he  was ;  121 

And  he  replied :  ' '  I  rained  from  Tuscany 

Into  this  savage  gullet  not  long  since. 
Life  as  a  beast 's,  not  as  a  man 's,  pleased  me,  124 

Mule  that  I  was ;  my  name  is  Vanni  Fucci, 

Beast,  and  Pistoia  was  my  fitting  den.'^ 
And  to  the  Leader  I :  * '  Bid  him  not  slip  127 

Away,  but  ask  what  crime  thrust  him  down  here ; 

I  have  seen  him  a  man  of  blood  and  rage." 
The  sinner,  who  had  understood,  feigned  not,  130 

But  turned  toward  me  his  spirit  and  his  face, 

And  took  the  hue  of  melancholic  shame ; 
And  said :  ' '  It  hurts  more  that  thou  catch  me  in  133 

The  misery,  in  which  thou  seest  me,  than 

When  I  was  taken  from  the  other  life. 
That  which  thou  askest  I  can  not  refuse ;  136 

I  am  put  down  so  far  because  I  robbed 

The  sacristy  of  the  fair  ornaments; 
With  which  another  once  was  falsely  charged.  13^ 


100  THE  DIVINE  COMEDY 

But  that  thou  mayest  not  enjoy  this  sight, 
If  ever  thou  art  out  of  these  dark  places, 

To  my  announcement  lend  thine  ears,  and  hear :  1^ 

Pistoia  first  doth  strip  herself  of  Blacks, 
Then  folk  and  fashions  Florence  renovates. 

From  Valdimagra  Mars  is  drawing  forth  145 

A  vapor  that  is  wrapped  in  turbid  clouds; 
And  with  impetuous  and  bitter  storm 

There  shall  be  fighting  in  the  Pescian  plain;  1*8 

Whence  it  shall  suddenly  so  rend  the  mist, 
That  every  White  shall  wounded  be  thereby; 

And  this  I  say  that  it  may  make  thee  grieve.  ^  ^  151 


CANTO  XXV 

At  the  conclusion  of  his  words  the  thief 

Lifted  his  hands  with  both  the  figs,  and  cried: 
'  *  Take  that,  God,  for  it  is  to  Thee  I  square  them !  * ' 

From  that  time  forth  the  serpents  were  my  friends,  * 

For  one  then  coiled  about  his  neck,  as  if 
It  said:  *'I  will  not  have  thee  utter  more!" 

About  his  arms  another  pinioned  him  7 

Anew,  clinching  itself  in  front  of  him 
So  that  he  could  not  give  a  shake  with  them. 

Pistoia!    Ah,  Pistoia!    Why  not  plan  10 

To  turn  to  ashes  to  endure  no  more. 
Since  in  ill-doing  thou  excell'st  thy  seed! 

Through  all  the  circles  of  dark  hell  I  saw  18 

No  spirit  against  God  so  arrogant. 
Not  even  him  who  fell  down  from  the  walls 

At  Thebes.     He  fled  without  another  word;  1® 

And  I  beheld  a  centaur  full  of  rage 
Come  crying  out:  "Where  is  the  harsh  one,  where!** 


INFERNO,  XXV  101 

Maremma  has  not,  I  believe,  of  snakes  1^ 

So  many  as  he  had  upon  his  croup 

To  where  the  semblance  of  ourselves  begins. 
Behind  the  nape  upon  his  shoulders  lay  22 

A  dragon  on  him  with  his  wings  outspread; 

And  whomsoe'er  it  meets  it  sets  on  fire. 
Then  said  my  Master :  ' '  This  is  Cacus,  who  25 

Within  his  cavern  'neath  Mount  Aventine 

Has  made  full  many  a  time  a  lake  of  blood.  ' 
He  goes  not  with  his  brothers  by  one  road  28 

Because  of  the  deceptive  theft  he  made 

Of  the  great  herd  that  he  had  near  to  him ; 
Whereby  his  crooked  deeds  came  to  an  end  31 

Beneath  the  club  of  Hercules,  who  dealt 

Some  hundred  blows  on  him,  who  felt  not  ten.'* 
While  he  spoke  thus,  and  that  one  had  run  by,  34 

Behold,  below  us  had  three  spirits  come. 

Of  whom  my  Leader  had  not  been  aware, 
Nor  I,  until  they  cried  out:  ''Who  are  ye?"  37 

On  that  account  our  story  came  to  an  end, 

And  afterwards  we  heeded  them  alone. 
I  did  not  know  them,  but  it  happened  then,  40 

As  it  is  wont  to  happen  by  some  chance, 

That  one  had  cause  to  use  another's  name. 
Saying:  ''Where  can  have  Cianfa  stayed  behind?"  ^3 

So,  that  my  Leader  might  attentive  stand, 

I  put  my  finger  up  from  chin  to  nose. 
If  thou  art,  reader,  slow  to  credit  now  4^ 

What  I  shall  tell,  it  were  not  strange,  for  I 

Who  saw  it,  scarce  admit  it  to  myself. 
As  I  my  brows  held  raised  upon  them,  lo !  49 

A  serpent  with  six  feet  darted  in  front 

Of  one  and  fastened  on  his  every  part; 
For  with  his  middle  feet  it  clasped  his  paunch,  ^2 


102  THE  DIVINE  COMEDY 

And  with  its  fore  feet  seized  upon  his  arms ; 

And  then  it  set  its  teeth  in  both  his  cheeks ; 
Its  hind  feet  it  spread  out  upon  his  thighs,  55 

And  having  put  its  tail  between  the  two, 

It  stretched  it  up  behind  along  his  reins. 
Ivy  was  never  rooted  so  to  tree,  58 

As  was  this  horrible  wild-beast  entwined 

About  the  other's  members  with  its  own; 
Thereafter,  as  if  they  had  been  hot  wax,  Cl 

They  stuck  together,  and  their  color  mingled; 

Now  neither  seemed  to  be  what  it  had  been. 
As  moves  along  before  the  burning  flame  ^ 

Over  the  paper  upward  color  dark 

But  not  yet  black,  while  its  white  dies  away. 
The  other  two  were  looking  on,  and  each  67 

Cried  out :  '  *  0  me,  Agnello !  how  thou  changest ! 

See,  how  thou  art  now  neither  two  nor  one ! ' ' 
Already  had  the  two  heads  grown  to  one,  7^ 

When  there  appeared  to  us  two  countenances 

Mixed  in  one  face,  wherein  the  two  were  lost. 
The  two  arms  formed  themselves  out  of  four  strips ;  73 

The  thighs  and  legs,  the  belly  and  the  chest 

Became  such  members  as  were  never  seen. 
All  their  first  aspect  had  been  canceled  there ;  76 

Two  and  yet  none  seemed  the  perverted  form, 

And  being  such,  with  slow  step  went  away. 
As  under  the  great  scourge  of  dogdays,  when  79 

It  changes  hedge  for  hedge,  the  lizard  seems 

A  flash  of  lightning,  if  it  cross  the  way : 
So  seemed  a  little  serpent  all  on  fire,  82 

Livid  and  black  as  pepper-corn,  to  come 

Toward  the  bellies  of  the  other  two; 
And  it  transfixed  in  one  of  them  that  part,  85 

Where  first  our  nourishment  is  taken;  then 


INFERNO,  XXV  103 

Fell  down  stretched  out  in  front  of  him.    The  one 
Who  was  transfixed,  gazed  at  it,  but  said  naught,  88 

Nay,  with  steps  stayed,  was  yawning,  just  as  if 

Sleep  or  a  fever  were  assailing  him. 
He  viewed  the  serpent,  and  the  serpent  him ;  ^1 

One  from  his  wound,  the  other  from  his  mouth 

Sent  forth  great  smoke,  and  smoke  encountered  smoke. 
Thenceforth  be  Lucan  silent  where  he  tells  94 

Of  poor  Sabellus  and  Nasidius, 

And  wait  to  hear  that  which  is  now  revealed. 
Of  Cadmus  and  of  Arethusa  silent  97 

Be  Ovid,  for  if  he  as  poet  turn 

Her  to  a  fountain,  to  a  serpent  him, 
I  envy  him  not ;  for  never  front  to  front  100 

Transmuted  he  two  natures,  so  that  both 

The  forms  were  ready  to  exchange  their  matter. 
They  mutually  responded  by  such  rules,  103 

The  serpent  cleft  its  tail  into  a  fork, 

The  stricken  one  together  drew  his  feet. 
The  legs  and,  too,  the  thighs  along  with  them  106 

So  stuck  together  that  their  juncture  soon 

Had  left  behind  it  no  apparent  mark. 
The  tail  that  had  been  cleft  was  taking  on  109 

The  shape  the  other  one  was  losing,  while 

Its  skin  was  growing  soft,  the  other's  hard. 
I  saw  the  arms  go  through  the  arm-pits  in,  112 

The  two  feet  of  the  beast,  that  had  been  short, 

Lengthen  as  much  as  those  were  shortening. 
Later  the  hinder  feet,  together  twisted,  115 

Became  the  member  that  a  man  conceals. 

And  from  his  own  the  wretch  had  two  thrust  forth. 
And  while  the  smoke  was  veiling  both  of  them  H^ 

With  color  new,  and  generates  the  hair 

Upon  one  side  and  strips  it  from  the  other. 


104  THE  DIVINE  COMEDY 

The  one  rose  up,  the  other  falling  down,  121 

Nor  did  they  turn  for  that  the  impious  lights, 

Beneath  which  each  of  them  was  changing  muzzle. 
The  one  erect  drew  his  in  toward  the  temples,  124 

And  from  superfluous  matter  coming  there 

Issued  the  ears  from  cheeks  that  had  been  smooth; 
That  which  did  not  run  back,  but  was  retained,  127 

Of  its  excess  made  of  itself  a  nose. 

And  made  the  lips  of  thickness  suitable. 
He  that  lay  prone  his  muzzle  forward  thrusts,  1^0 

And  backward  draws  his  ears  into  his  head. 

As  does  the  snail  its  horns;  and,  too,  his  tongue, 
Which  was  before  united  and  was  quick  133 

In  speaking,  cleaves  itself;  and  in  the  other 

The  forked  tongue  closes  up ;  the  smoke  has  ceased. 
The  soul,  that  had  become  an  animal,  136 

Fled  down  the  valley,  hissing  as  it  went. 

The  other  after  it  with  sputtering  speech. 
Then  turned  he  his  new  shoulders  on  it,  saying  139 

Unto  the  third:  **I  want  Buoso  should  run. 

As  I  have,  groveling,  along  this  path. ' ' 
The  seventh  ballast  thus  I  saw  to  change  1*2 

And  change  again ;  and  here  be  my  excuse 

The  novelty,  if  my  pen  slightly  stray. 
And  though  my  eyes  might  be  somewhat  confused  1*5 

And  mind  bewildered,  yet  thou  couldst  not  flee 

Away  so  covertly,  that  I  did  not 
Puccio  Sciancato  plainly  recognize:  1*^ 

And  he  it  was  alone  of  all  the  three 

-  Companions  that  came  first,  that  was  not  changed ; 
The  other  he  whom  thou,  Gaville,  weepest.  151 


INFERNO,  XXVI  105 


CANTO  XXVI 


Be  joyful,  Florence,  since  thou  art  so  great 
That  over  land  and  over  sea  thou  beatest 
Thy  wings,  and  thy  name  spreads  abroad  through  hell ! 

Among  the  thieves  I  came  upon  five  such,  4 

Thy  citizens,  that  shame  came  over  me, 
And  to  great  honor  thou  mount 'st  not  thereby. 

But  if  toward  morning  truth  is  in  our  dreams,  7 

Thou  art  to  feel  in  little  time  from  this 
What  Prato  craves  for  thee,  and  others  too. 

And  it  were  not  too  soon,  if  it  were  now ;  10 

So  were  it!  since  it  is  to  be  indeed; 
'  It  will  weigh  the  more  on  me,  the  more  I  age. 

We  set  out  thence,  and  up  along  the  stairs  13 

The  bourns  had  made  for  our  descent  before, 
The  Leader  mounted  now,  and  drew  me  up ; 

Pursuing  thus  the  solitary  way  16 

'Mid  stones  and  fragments  of  the  rocky  bridge. 
The  foot  without  the  hand  to  help  sped  not. 

I  sorrowed  then  and  sorrow  now  again  19 

When  I  direct  my  mind  to  what  I  saw. 
And  curb  my  genius  more  than  I  am  wont, 

That  unless  virtue  guide  it,  it  run  not ; 
That  I  rob  not  myself,  if  some  good  star 
Or  better  thing  have  granted  me  that  good. 

In  as  great  numbers  as  the  countryman,  25 

Who  rests  upon  the  hillside, — at  the  season  ,'a- 

When  he  who  lights  the  world  hides  least  his  face 

From  us,  and  hour  when  flies  give  place  to  gnats, —        28 
Sees  fireflies  in  the  valley  at  his  feet. 
Perhaps  there  where  he  gathers  grapes,  and  ploughs : 
With  flames  as  many  glittering  throughout  ^l 


22 


106  THE  DIVINE  COMEDY 

Was  the  eighth  bolgia,  I  perceived,  as  soon 

As  I  was  where  its  depth  appeared  in  sight. 
And  as  he  who  took  vengeance  by  the  bears  34 

Beheld  Elijah's  chariot  depart 

When  up  to  heaven  the  horses  rose  erect, — 
For  with  his  eyes  he  could  not  follow  so  37 

That  he  saw  other  than  the  flame  alone 

Ascending  upward  like  a  little  cloud: 
So  each  flame  through  the  gully  of  the  ditch  40 

Was  moving  on,  for  none  displayed  its  theft ; 

And  every  one  hides  furtively  a  sinner. 
I  stood  upon  the  bridge,  so  risen  up  43 

To  see,  that  if  I  had  not  seized  a  rock, 

I  should  have  fallen  down,  e'en  though  not  pushed. 
The  Leader,  who  saw  I  was  so  intent,  46 

Said  to  me :  ' '  In  those  flres  the  spirits  are ; 

Each  swathes  himself  with  what  is  burning  him." 
''My  Master,"  I  replied,  ''for  hearing  thee  49 

Am  I  more  certain,  but  I  thought  already 

That  it  was  so,  and  would  already  say: 
Who  is  within  that  fire  that  comes  with  top  52 

So  parted,  it  seems  rising  from  the  pyre 

Eteocles  was  laid  on  with  his  brother?" 
He  answered  me:  "Within  it  are  Ulysses  55 

And  Diomed  tormented;  thus  they  go 

In  punishment  together  as  in  wrath ; 
And  in  their  flame  do  they  lament  with  groans  •  58 

The  ambush  of  the  horse  which  made  the  gate 

By  which  the  Romans'  noble  seed  came  forth; 
They  weep  within  it  for  the  craft,  whereby  61 

Deidamia  dead  grieves  for  Achilles 

Still;  and  the  penalty  is  there  endured 
For  the  Palladium. "    "If  they  can  speak  «4 

Within  those  sparks,"  said  I,  "I  pray  thee  much, 


INFERNO,  XXVI  107 

Master, — and  pray  again  my  prayer  be  worth 
A  thousand, — that  thou  wilt  deny  me  not  67 

The  waiting  till  the  horned  flame  hither  come ; 

Thou  seest  that  I  bend  toward  it  with  desire." 
And  he :  ' '  Thy  prayer  is  worthy  of  much  praise,  70 

And  therefore  I  accept  it;  but  do  thou 

Take  heed  that  thy  tongue  hold  itself  in  check. 
Leave  me  to  speak,  for  I  have  understood  '^^ 

What  thou  wilt  have ;  since  they,  as  they  were  Greeks, 

Might  be,  perchance,  disdainful  of  thy  words." 
As  soon  as  to  that  point  the  flame  had  come  76 

Where  to  my  Leader  it  seemed  place  and  time, 

After  this  manner  heard  I  him  to  speak: 
* '  0  ye,  who  both  are  in  a  single  flame,  79 

If  I  had  merit  with  you  while  I  lived. 

If  I  had  merit  with  you,  much  or  little. 
When  in  the  world  I  wrote  the  lofty  verses,  82 

Move  not ;  but  may  there  one  of  you  relate 

Whither  he  journeyed,  lost,  unto  his  death." 
The  ancient  flame  within  its  greater  horn  85 

Began  to  shake  itself  with  murmuring. 

Even  as  flame  which  wind  is  wearying; 
Then,  moving  to  and  fro  the  very  tip,  88 

As  though  it  were  the  tongue  that  formed  the  words. 

Cast  forth  a  voice,  and  said:  ''When  I  departed 
From  Circe,  who  hid  me  a  year  and  more  ^^ 

There  near  Gaeta,  at  a  time  before 

Aeneas  had  thus  given  it  its  name, 
Neither  sweet  care  of  son,  nor  piety  94 

Toward  my  old  father,  nor  the  love  due  her 

Which  should  have  gladdened  my  Penelope, 
Could  overcome  the  ardor  that  I  had  ®7 

In  me  to  gain  experience  of  the  world 

And  of  the  vices  and  the  worth  of  men ; 


108  THE  DIVINE  COMEDY 

But  I  put  forth  on  the  deep,  open  sea  100 

With  but  one  ship,  and  with  that  company 

Not  large,  and  which  had  not  deserted  me. 
Both  shores  I  visited  as  far  as  Spain,  108 

Even  to  Morocco,  and  Sardinia's  isle 

And  others  bathed  in  the  surrounding  sea. 
Myself  and  my  companions  had  grown  old  106 

And  slow,  when  we  had  reached  that  narrow  strait 

Where  Hercules  had  set  his  boundaries, 
In  order  that  man  put  not  out  beyond ;  109 

Seville  I  left  behind  upon  the  right. 

With  Ceuta  passed  already  on  the  left. 
*0  brothers,'  said  I,  'who  are  come  at  last,  112 

A  hundred  thousand  perils  undergone. 

Into  the  west,  to  that  which  still  remains 
Of  this,  your  senses'  vigil,  now  so  brief,  115 

Do  not  deny  experience,  with  the  sun 

In  front  of  you,  of  the  unpeopled  world. 
Consider  of  what  origin  ye  are ;  118 

Ye  were  not  made  to  live  as  do  the  brutes. 

But  to  seek  virtue  and  to  learn  the  truth. ' 
With  these  few  words  addressing  them,  I  made  121 

So  eager  my  companions  for  the  voyage. 

That  I  could  scarcely  then  have  held  them  back ; 
And  when  our  stern  to  the  morning  had  been  turned,      124 

The  oars  became  our  wings  for  that  mad  flight. 

As  we  went,  ever  gaining  on  the  left, 
The  night  already  looked  on  all  the  stars  127 

About  the  other  pole,  with  ours  so  low 

That  it  rose  not  above  the  ocean  floor. 
Five  times  rekindled  and  as  many  quenched  I'O 

Had  been  the  light  beneath  the  moon,  since  we 

Had  entered  on  the  passage  of  the  deep, 
When  there  appeared  to  us  a  mountain,  dark  l** 


INFERNO,  XXYII  109 

Because  of  distance ;  and  it  seemed  to  me 
Of  such  a  height  as  I  had  never  seen. 

We  felt  great  joy,  but  soon  it  turned  to  grief  136 

Because  a  whirlwind  rose  from  that  new  land 
And  struck  our  ship  upon  the  forward  part. 

Three  times  it  made  her  whirl  around  with  all  139 

The  waters,  and  the  fourth,  lifted  the  stern 
And  downward  sent  the  bow,  as  pleased  Another, 

Until  the  sea  again  closed  over  us. ' '  142 


CANTO  XXYII 

Already  was  the  flame  erect  and  quiet, — 
For  it  had  ceased  to  speak, — and  moving  off 
From  us  with  the  sweet  poet's  license,  when 

Another  that  behind  it  came,  caused  us  4 

To  turn  our  eyes  toward  its  tip,  because 
Of  sound  confused  that  issued  forth  from  it. 

As  the  Sicilian  bull,  which  bellowed  first  7 

With  the  lament  of  him, — and  that  was  right, — 
Who  with  his  file  had  given  it  its  form. 

Was  wont  to  bellow  with  the  sufferer's  voice  10 

So  that,  although  it  was  a  thing  of  brass. 
Yet  it  appeared  to  be  transfixed  with  pain ; 

So,  since  at  first  they  were  without  a  way  13 

Or  outlet  from  the  fire,  the  woful  words 
Into  its  language  would  transform  themselves. 

But  after  they  had  found  their  course  up  through  16 

The  point,  and  given  it  that  quivering 
The  tongue  had  given  as  they  passed  along, 

We  heard  the  words :  ' '  0  thou,  to  whom  I  turn  1^ 

My  voice,  and  who  just  now  spoke  Lombard,  saying : 
'Now  go  thy  way,  longer  I  urge  thee  not;' 


110  THE  DIVINE  COMEDY 

Though  I  come  somewhat  late,  perchance,  let  it  22 

Not  weary  thee  to  stop  and  talk  with  me ; 

Thou  seest  it  wearies  me  not,  and  I  bum. 
If  thou  art  fallen  into  this  blind  world  25 

But  now  from  that  sweet  land  of  Italy, 

Whence  I  bring  all  my  guilt,  tell  me,  I  pray, 
If  in  Romagna  they  have  peace  or  war;  28 

For  I  was  of  the  mountains  there  between 

Urbino  and  the  chain  whence  Tiber  breaks.'* 
I  was  attentive  downward  bending,  when  31 

My  Leader  touched  me  on  my  side,  and  said : 

''Speak  thou;  it  is  an  Italian."    And  I, 
Who  had  already  my  reply  prepared,  •* 

Without  delay  began  to  speak :  "  0  soul, 

Who  art  in  thy  concealment  there  below, 
Thy  land  Romagna  is  not  and  was  never  *7 

Without  war  in  her  tyrants'  hearts,  but  none 

Waged  openly  did  I  leave  lately  there. 
Ravenna  stands,  as  it  has  stood  long  years,  ^ 

The  eagle  of  Polenta  brooding  there. 

So  that  he  covers  Cervia  with  his  wings. 
The  city  that  the  long-drawn  struggle  made  *• 

Erewhile,  and  of  the  French  a  bloody  heap, 

Beneath  the  green  paws  finds  itself  again. 
Verrucchio's  former  mastiff  and  the  new,  *• 

Who  gave  ill  treatment  to  Montagna,  make 

An  auger  of  their  teeth,  where  they  are  wont. 
The  cities  of  Lamone  and  Santemo  *• 

Are  guided  by  the  white  lair's  lion  cub, 

Ere  summer  yield  to  winter  changing  side ; 
And  she  whose  flank  the  Savio  bathes,  as  she 

Is  lying  'twixt  the  mountain  and  the  plain, 

Lives  between  tyranny  and  free  estate. 
Now,  I  beseech  thee,  tell  us  who  thou  art,  55 


58 


INFERNO,  XXVII  111 

Not  obdurate  more  than  another  is; 

So  may  thy  name  maintain  its  front  on  earth/' 
After  the  fire  a  little  while  had  roared  58 

In  its  own  mode,  the  sharp  point  moved  this  way 

And  that,  and  then  gave  forth  this  breath : 
*  *  If  I  believed  that  my  reply  would  be  ^1 

To  one  who  ever  should  return  to  earth. 

This  flame  would  stand  without  more  quiverings ; 
But  inasmuch  as  from  this  deep  one  ne'er  64 

Returned  alive,  if  I  hear  truth,  without 

A  fear  of  infamy  I  answer  thee. 
I  was  a  man  of  arms ;  then  cordelier,  67 

Trusting  within,  so  girt,  to  make  amends; 

And  certainly  my  trust  were  come  to  full 
But  for  the  Great  Priest,  whom  may  woe  befall !  70 

Who  set  me  back  again  in  my  first  sins ; 

And  how  and  why  I  will  thou  learn  from  me. 
When  I  was  still  the  form  of  bones  and  flesh  73 

My  mother  had  bestowed  on  me,  my  deeds 

Were  like  the  fox's  and  not  leonine. 
The  shrewd  devices  and  the  covert  ways,  76 

I  knew  them  all,  and  practised  so  their  art 

That  to  the  ends  of  the  earth  the  sound  went  forth. 
When  I  could  see  that  I  had  now  arrived  79 

At  that  part  of  my  age  when  every  one 

Should  strike  his  sails  and  coil  his  ropes,  that  which 
Before  was  pleasing,  then  offended  me,  82 

And  penitent,  confessed,  I  gave  myself, 

Wretched,  alas !  and  it  would  have  availed. 
The  Prince  of  the  new  Pharisees,  who  then  85 

Was  having  war  near  to  the  Lateran, — 

And  not  with  Saracens,  nor  yet  with  Jews, 
For  every  enemy  of  his  was  Christian,  88 

And  none  had  been  at  Acre  conquering. 


112  THE  DIVINE  COMEDY 

Nor  in  the  Soldan's  land  a  trafficker, — 
Regarded  not  his  Supreme  Officer,  nor  *1 

His  Holy  Orders,  nor  in  me  that  cord 

Which  used  to  make  those  girt  with  it  more  lean. 
But  as  within  Soracte  Constantine  94 

Bade  that  Silvester  cure  his  leprosy, 

So  this  one  bade  that  I,  as  an  adept. 
Should  cure  the  fever  of  his  arrogance ;  ^7 

He  asked  of  me  advice,  and  I  kept  silent. 

Because  his  words  seemed  drunken ;  then  he  said 
To  me;  'Let  not  thy  heart  mistrust;  from  now  ^00 

I  thee  absolve;  teach  thou  me  so  to  act 

That  I  throw  Palestrina  to  the  ground. 
I  have  the  power  to  lock  and  unlock  heaven,  103 

As  thou  dost  know ;  for  that  the  keys  are  two, 

"Which  he  who  went  before  me  held  not  dear.' 
The  weighty  arguments  then  forced  me  there  10^ 

Where  to  keep  silent  seemed  to  me  the  worst, 

And  I  said:  'Father,  since  thou  washest  me 
From  that  sin  into  which  I  now  must  fall,  IW) 

Long  promise  with  short  keeping  will  make  thee 

To  be  triumphant  on  the  lofty  seat. ' 
Francis  came  afterwards,  when  I  was  dead,  112 

For  me,  but  one  of  the  dark  Cherubim 

Said  to  him :  *  Take  him  not ;  do  me  no  wrong. 
He  must  come  down  among  my  menials,  115 

Because  he  gave  the  fraudulent  advice, 

From  which  time  on  I  have  been  at  his  hair; 
For  who  repents  not  can  not  be  absolved ;  H^ 

One  can  not  both  repent  and  will  at  once, 

Because  the  contradiction  grants  it  not.* 
0  wretched  me !  how  I  awakened  then  121 

When  he  seized  me,  saying  to  me :  *  Perchance 

Thou  didst  not  deem  me  a  logician ! ' 


INFERNO,  XXYIII  113 

He  bore  me  off  to  Minos,  who  eight  times  124 

Twisted  his  tail  round  his  unyielding  back ; 
And  when  he  in  great  rage  had  bitten  it, 

He  said :  '  This  is  a  sinner  for  the  fire  127 

That  hides ; '  wherefore  I  where  thou  seest  am  lost, 
And  in  affliction,  as  I  go  thus  robed. ' ' 

When  he  had  thus  brought  to  an  end  his  words,  130 

The  flame  took  its  departure,  sorrowing. 
Twisting  and  tossing  with  its  pointed  horn. 

Onward  we  pressed,  I  and  my  Leader  both,  133 

Along  the  rock  to  the  next  arch  that  covers 
The  ditch,  in  which  the  fee  is  paid  by  those, 

Who  get  a  burden  through  dissevering.  136 


CANTO  XXVIII 

Who  ever  could,  even  with  words  unbound. 

Fully  describe  the  blood  and  wounds  that  now 

I  saw,  although  he  told  it  many  times? 
All  tongues  would  certainly  come  short  of  it,  * 

Because  our  language  and  the  memory 

Have  small  capacity  to  hold  so  much. 
If  all  the  people  were  assembled  still  7 

Who  on  Apulia's  field  of  fortune  erst 

Were  put  to  grief  for  their  blood  that  was  shed 
By  them  of  Troy,  and  too  by  that  long  war  10 

Which  furnished  of  the  rings  spoils  heaped  so  high. 

As  Livy  writes,  who  does  not  err;  and  those. 
Who  in  withstanding  Robert  Guiscard  felt  13 

The  pain  of  blows,  and  those  whose  bones  are  still 

Together  in  a  heap  at  Ceperano, 
Where  each  Apulian  was  traitorous;  16 

And  those  who  were  at  Tagliacozzo,  where 


114  THE  DIVINE  COMEDY 

The  old  Alardo  conquered  without  arms ; 
And  should  this  one  display  his  limb  transpierced,  1® 

And  that  one  his,  lopped  off :  it  matched  nowise 

The  mode  of  the  ninth  bolgia  hideous. 
Even  a  cask,  with  mid-piece  lost,  or  stave,  22 

Is  not  split  open  so  as  I  saw  one, 

Ripped  from  the  chin  to  where  the  wind  is  broken, 
His  entrails  hanging  down  between  his  legs;  25 

His  pluck  appeared  and  the  distressful  pouch 

Which  turns  to  ordure  what  is  swallowed  down. 
While  wholly  upon  him  I  fixed  my  gaze,  28 

He  looked  at  me,  and  opening  his  breast 

With  his  own  hands,  said :  *  *  Now  thou  seest  how  I 
Do  rend  myself;  how  mangled,  Mahomet.  31 

Before  me  Ali  ^oes  along  in  tears, 

With  his  face  cleft  from  forelock  to  the  chin ; 
And  all  the  others  whom  thou  seest  here  5* 

Were  scatterers  of  scandal  in  their  lives. 

And  schism,  and  for  that  reason  are  thus  cleft. 
A  devil,  here  behind  us,  fashions  us  ^'^ 

Thus  cruelly,  subjecting  of  this  band 

Each  one  to  hewing  of  his  sword  afresh, 
When  we  have  gone  around  the  woful  road;  ^ 

Because  the  wounds  will  have  closed  up  again 

Ere  one  returns  to  pass  in  front  of  him. 
But  who  art  thou,  that  musest  on  the  rock,  ** 

To  put  off  going  to  that  penalty. 

Perchance,  adjudged  upon  thy  self-reproof?" 
**Nor  death  has  reached  him  yet,  nor  guilt  leads  him,*'      4^ 

Answered  my  Master,  ' '  to  torment  him ;  but 

To  give  him  full  experience,  must  needs 
I,  who  am  dead,  conduct  him  throughout  hell  *• 

From  circle  unto  circle  here  below; 

And  this  is  true,  as  *tis  I  speak  to  thee.'* 


58 


61 


INFERNO,  XXVITI  115 

More  than  a  hundred  were  there  who  heard  him,  52 

And  stopped  then  in  the  ditch  to  look  at  me. 

Through  wondering  oblivious  to  their  pain. 
*  *  Now  then,  bid  Fra  Dolcino  arm  himself,  55 

Thou  who  perchance  wilt  shortly  see  the  sun, 

If  he  will  not  soon  follow  me  down  here, 
So  with  provisions,  that  a  stress  of  snow 

Give  not  the  Novarese  the  victory. 

Which  otherwise  to  gain  were  no  slight  thing. ' ' 
After  one  foot  was  lifted  up  to  go 

Had  Mahomet  addressed  me  with  these  words ; 

Then  as  he  left  he  stretched  it  to  the  ground. 
Another,  who  had  had  his  throat  pierced  through  64 

And  nose  cut  off  up  to  beneath  the  brow, 

And  had  no  longer  but  a  single  ear, 
Standing  to  gaze  in  wonder  with  the  rest,  67 

Before  the  rest  then  laid  his  windpipe  open, 

Which  outwardly  was  red  in  every  part. 
And  said :  ' '  Thou  who  art  not  condemned  by  guilt,  70 

And  whom  I  up  in  Italy  have  seen. 

Unless  remembrance  lead  me  too  far  wrong. 
Remember  Pier  da  Medicina,  if  73 

Thou  e'er  return  to  look  on  that  sweet  plain 

That  from  Vercelli  slopes  to  Marcabo, 
And  let  the  two  best  men  of  Fano  know,  76 

Messer  Guido  and  Angiolello  too, 

That,  if  our  foresight  here  do  not  prove  vain. 
They  shall  be  cast  into  the  sea  and  drowned  79 

In  weighted  sacks  near  La  Cattolica, 

Because  of  a  fell  tyrant 's  treachery. 
Between  the  isles  of  Cyprus  and  Majorca  82 

Neptune  ne'er  looked  upon  so  great  a  crime, 

Not  of  the  pirates,  nor  of  Argive  stock. 
That  traitor,  who  sees  only  with  one  eye,  85 


116  THE  DIVINE  COMEDY 

And  holds  the  land  which  one  down  here  with  me 

Would  that  his  eyes  had  never  fed  upon, 
"Will  have  them  come  to  him  for  parleying;  88 

Then  will  deal  so  that  'gainst  Focara's  wind 

They  will  have  need  of  neither  vow  nor  prayer.  *  * 
And  I  to  him :  ' '  Show  to  me  and  declare,  91 

If  thou  wilt  that  I  take  up  news  of  thee. 

Who  is  the  one  to  whom  the  sight  was  bitter  T' 
He  laid  his  hand  then  on  the  jaw  of  one  W 

Of  his  companions,  opening  the  mouth, 

And  cried  out :  ' '  This  is  he,  and  he  talks  not ; 
This  one  in  banishment  stifled  the  doubt  97 

In  Caesar,  affirming  that  the  man  equipped 

Sustained  delay  always  with  injury.'' 
Oh,  how  aghast  did  he  appear  to  me,  100 

Who  had  his  tongue  now  cut  out  from  his  throat, 

Curio,  who  had  been  so  bold  to  speak ! 
And  one,  whose  hands  were  both  of  them  cut  off,  103 

Raising  the  stumps  into  the  dusky  air. 

So  that  the  blood  was  making  his  face  foul, 
Cried  out :  ' '  Thou  wilt  remember  Mosca  too,  106 

Who  said,  alas ! '  A  thing  done,  there 's  an  end ! ' 

Which  for  the  Tuscan  folk  was  seed  of  ill.*' 
I  added  for  him:  ''And  thy  kindred's  death;"  109 

Whereat  he,  heaping  woe  on  woe,  went  off 

Upon  his  way,  as  one  in  sadness,  mad. 
But  I  remained  there  gazing  at  the  crowd,  112 

And  saw  a  thing  that  I  should  be  afraid. 

Without  more  proof,  only  to  tell  of  itj 
If  I  were  not  by  conscience  reassured,  115 

The  good  companion  that  emboldens  man, 

'Neath  breastplate  of  its  conscious  purity. 
I  surely  saw,  and  seem  to  see  it  still,  118 

A  trunk  without  a  head  move  on,  e'en  as 


INFERNO,  XXIX  117 

The  others  of  the  dismal  herd  were  moving. 
And  by  the  hair  it  held  the  severed  head,  121 

Swung  like  a  lantern  in  the  hand;  and  that 

Kept  looking  at  us  as  it  said :  * '  0  me ! " 
Thus  of  itself  it  made  itself  a  lamp,  124 

And  they  were  two  in  one  and  one  in  two ; 

How  this  can  be.  He  knows  who  so  ordains. 
When  he  had  reached  the  bridge  just  at  the  foot  127 

He  lifted  high  his  arm  with  his  whole  head 

To  bring  more  near  to  us  his  words,  which  were : 
''Now  see  the  grievous  punishment,  thou  that  13^ 

Art  going  breathing,  looking  on  the  dead, 

And  see  if  there  be  any  great  as  this! 
And  that  thou  mayst  take  tidings  of  me,  know  1^3 

I  am  Bertran  de  Born,  the  one  that  gave 

Evil  encouragements  to  the  young  king. 
Father  and  son  I  set  at  mutual  war ;  136 

"With  wicked  goading  did  Ahithophel 

Not  more  to  David  and  to  Absalom. 
As  I  divided  those  who  were  thus  joined,  139 

My  own  brain  I  am  carrying,  alas ! 

Divided  from  its  source  within  this  trunk. 
Thus  retribution  is  observed  in  me. ' '  1^2 


CANTO  XXIX 

The  many  people  and  the  divers  wounds 
Wrought  such  inebriation  in  my  eyes 
That  they  were  craving  to  remain  and  weep ; 

But  Virgil  said  to  me:  "Why  watching  still? 
Why  does  thy  gaze  remain  still  fixed  upon 
The  dismal  mutilated  shades  down  there? 

Thou  hast  not  done  so  at  the  other  bolge ; 


118  THE  DIVINE  COMEDY 

Consider,  if  thou  think  'st  to  count  them,  that 
For  two  and  twenty  miles  the  valley  turns; 

Already  is  the  moon  beneath  our  feet,  10 

The  time  allotted  us  is  henceforth  short; 
And  other  things  to  see  than  those  thou  seesf 

I  thereupon  replied:  *'If  thou  hadst  noted  13 

The  reason  why  I  looked,  thou  wouldst,  perchance, 
Have  granted  me  a  longer  stay."    Meanwhile 

The  Leader  went  along,  and  I  behind  1^ 

Was  following,  now  making  my  reply, 
And  adding :  ' '  In  that  hollow  where  I  was 

Holding  my  eye  just  now  so  fixedly,  !• 

A  spirit  of  my  blood,  I  think,  laments 
The  sin  which  is  so  dearly  paid  for  there. ' ' 

Then  said  the  Master :  * '  Let  thy  thought  henceforth         22 
Be  not  upon  him  broken ;  give  thy  mind 
To  somewhat  else,  and  let  him  there  remain ; 

For  I  saw  him  below  the  little  bridge  25 

Pointing  at  thee  and  fiercely  threatening 
With  finger,  and  I  heard  them  calling  him 

Geri  del  Bello ;  thou  wast  then  so  fully  28 

Engaged  with  him  who  once  held  Hautefort, 
Thou  didst  not  look  that  way;  so  he  went  off.*' 

*  *  His  death  by  violence,  my  Leader,  which  31 

Has  not  yet  been  avenged  for  him, ' '  said  I, 
*  *  By  any  partner  of  the  shame,  made  him 

Indignant;  whereupon,  as  I  esteem,  34 

He  went  away  without  a  word  to  me; 
And  thus  makes  me  more  pitiful  for  him/' 

Thus  talked  we  up  to  where  upon  the  crag  37 

A  place  shows  first  the  valley  following, 
Quite  to  the  bottom,  if  more  light  were  there. 

When  we,  above  the  cloister  that  is  last  *0 

In  Malebolge,  came  to  such  a  place 


INFERNO,  XXIX  119 


43 


That  its  lay-brothers  could  be  seen  by  us, 
Lamentings  manifold  were  shot  at  me, 

That  had  their  arrows  barbed  with  suffering ; 

Whereat  my  ears  I  covered  with  my  hands. 
Such  pain  as  there  would  be  if  all  the  ills  46 

From  Valdichiana's  hospitals  and  from 

Maremma  and  Sardinia  were  together 
From  July  to  September  in  one  ditch :  4^ 

Such  was  there  here,  and  such  a  stench  came  forth 

As  comes  forth  commonly  from  putrid  limbs. 
Down  over  the  last  bank  of  the  long  crag  52 

We  went,  ever  toward  the  left,  and  then 

My  sight  was  livelier  into  the  deep. 
In  which  the  servant  of  the  Lord  on  high,  55 

Justice  infallible,  inflicts  their  doom. 

Here  registered  on  those  who  falsified. 
I  do  not  think  it  was  a  greater  sorrow  58 

To  see  Aegina's  people  all  diseased, — 

With  the  air  full  of  such  malignity, 
That  all  the  living  creatures,  even  to  61 

The  little  worm,  fell  down,  and  afterwards 

The  ancient  peoples,  as  the  poets  hold 
For  true,  restored  themselves  from  seed  of  ants, —  64 

Than  it  was  to  see  throughout  that  valley  dark 

The  spirits  languishing  in  divers  heaps. 
One  on  his  belly  lay,  and  one  across  67 

The  shoulders  of  another,  and  one  sprawled, 

Changing  his  place  upon  the  dismal  path. 
Not  speaking,  step  by  step,  we  went  along,  70 

Looking  upon  and  listening  to  the  sick, 

Who  could  not  lift  their  bodies.    I  saw  two 
Sitting  and  leaning  on  each  other  so  73 

As  stew-pan  against  stew-pan  leans  to  warm. 

Spotted  with  scabs  from  head  to  foot;  and  never 


120  THE  DIVINE  COMEDY 

Have  I  seen  curry-comb  so  handled  by  76 

A  stable-boy  his  master  waited  for, 
Nor  one  who  stays  awake  unwillingly, 
As  each  plied  ceaselessly  upon  himself  79 

The  bite  of  his  own  nails  for  the  great  rage 
Of  itching,  which  has  no  relief  besides. 
And  so  their  nails  were  drawing  down  the  scab  82 

As  does  the  knife  the  scales  from  bream,  or  fish 
Of  other  kind  which  has  them  larger  still. 
**0  thou  that  with  thy  fingers  dost  dis-mail  85 

Thyself, ' '  to  one  of  them  began  my  Leader, 
"And  makest  pincers  of  them  now  and  then, 
Tell  us  if  an  Italian  be  among  88 

Those  here  within ;  so  may  thy  nails  suffice 
To  thee  for  this  work  to  eternity  !'* 
*'We  are  Italians  both,  whom  thou  seest  here  91 

Disfigured  so, "  replied  one  as  he  wept. 
''But  who  art  thou  that  a^kest  this  of  us?'* 
The  Leader  said :  ' '  I  am  one  who  descends  94 

With  this  man  living  down  from  ledge  to  ledge, 
And  to  show  hell  to  him  is  my  intent." 
Their  mutual  support  was  broken  then,  97 

And  each  with  trembling  turned  about  toward  me, 
With  others  who  had  heard  him  by  rebound. 
Close  the  good  Master  drew  me  to  himself,  100 

And  said:  **Say  to  them  what  thou  wilt;''  and  I 
Began,  since  he  had  willed  it  should  be  so : 
"So  may  remembrance  of  you  not  steal  off  103 

In  the  first  world  from  out  the  minds  of  men. 
Nay,  under  many  suns  may  it  live  on. 
Tell  me,  who  may  ye  be  and  of  what  people  ?  106 

Let  not  your  foul,  unseemly  punishment 
Fright  you  from  showing  who  ye  are  to  me." 
"I  was  an  Aretine;  Albero  of  Siena,"  109 


INFERNO,  XXIX  121 

Replied  one,  *'liad  me  put  into  the  flames; 

But  that  for  which  I  died  brings  me  not  here. 
Truly  I  said  to  him,  speaking  in  jest,  112 

That  I  could  raise  myself  in  air  by  flight; 

But  curious  and  having  little  wit. 
He  willed  that  I  show  him  the  art ;  and  just  US 

Because  I  made  him  not  a  Daedalus, 

He  had  me  burned  by  one  whose  son  he  was. 
But  me,  to  the  last  bolgia  of  the  ten,  118 

For  alchemy,  which  in  the  world  I  practised, 

Minos  condemned,  one  not  allowed  to  err. ' ' 
And  I  said  to  the  Poet:  ''Now  was  ever  121 

So  vain  a  people  as  the  Sienese  ? 

Assuredly  the  French  is  not,  by  much.'' 
"Whereat  the  other  leper  who  heard  me,  124 

Answered  what  I  had  said:  ''Excepting  Stricca, 

He  who  could  make  expenses  moderate. 
And  Niccolo,  the  first  discoverer  127 

Of  the  expensive  using  of  the  clove 

Within  that  garden  where  such  seed  takes  root ; 
Excepting  too  the  company,  in  which  130 

Caccia  of  Asciano  squandered  vine  and  bough 

So  large,  and  Abbagliato  showed  his  wit. 
But  that  thou  learn  who  aids  thee  thus  against  1^3 

The  Sienese,  sharpen  thine  eye  toward  me. 

So  that  my  face  may  answer  thee  aright ; 
Thus  shalt  thou  see  I  am  Capocchio's  shade,  136 

Who  made  false  metals  by  his  alchemy; 

Thou  shouldst  recall,  if  I  descry  thee  weU, 
The  goodly  ape  of  nature  that  I  was.'*  139 


122  THE  DIVINE  COMEDY 


CANTO  XXX 

At  that  time  when,  because  of  Semele, 

Juno  was  angry  with  the  Theban  blood, 

As  she  had  more  than  once  made  manifest, 
Athamas  fell  in  such  insanity  * 

That  as  he  saw  his  wife  coming  in  charge 

Of  her  two  sons,  one  at  each  hand,  he  cried ; 
**Let  us  spread  out  the  nets  that  I  may  catch  7 

The  lioness  and  cubs  as  they  pass  by ; ' ' 

And  then  stretched  out  his  talons  pitiless, 
Seizing  the  one,  who  was  Learchus  named,  10 

And  whirled  him  round  and  dashed  him  on  the  rock ; 

And  with  her  other  charge  she  drowned  herself. 
And  when  the  turn  of  Fortune  had  brought  low  13 

The  Trojans'  loftiness,  that  had  dared  all, 

And  king  and  kingdom  both  were  blotted  out, 
Hecuba,  sad,  distressed  and  captive  led,  1^ 

When  she  had  seen  the  dead  Polyxena, 

And  in  her  suffering  became  aware 
Of  her  own  Polydorus  on  the  strand,  1^ 

Out  of  her  senses  barked  so  as  a  dog; 

So  had  the  pain  within  her  wrenched  her  mind. 
But  never  were  there  Theban  furies  seen  22 

Nor  Trojan  of  such  cruelty  in  one, 

Not  to  goad  beasts,  much  less  the  limbs  of  men, 
As  in  two  pale  and  naked  shades  I  saw,  25 

That  biting  ran  about  in  such  a  way 

As  does  the  boar  when  let  out  from  the  sty. 
One  coming  to  Capocchio  struck  his  tusks  28 

Into  his  neck-joint  so,  that,  dragging  him, 

He  made  his  belly  scratch  on  solid  ground. 
The  Aretine,  who  still  stood  trembling,  said:  81 


INFERNO,  XXX  123 

''That  sprite  is  Gianni  Schicchi,  and  he  goes 

Thus  in  his  anger  treating  others  ill." 
*  *  Oh, ' '  said  I  then  to  him,  ' '  so  may  that  other  34 

Not  fix  his  teeth  in  thee,  let  it  not  be 

A  burden  to  thee  to  say  who  it  is, 
Ere  it  go  hence. ' '    And  he  to  me :  "  That  is  37 

The  ancient  soul  of  wicked  Myrrha,  who 

Became  her  father's  love  with  love  undue. 
She  came  in  such  wise  to  her  sin  with  him,  40 

Herself  disguising  in  another's  form. 

As  he  did  dare,  who  yonder  goes  away. 
That  he  might  gain  the  lady  of  the  stud,  43 

Disguise  himself,  as  if  Buoso  Donati, 

Making  a  will  and  giving  it  due  form." 
And  after  the  two  rabid  ones  had  passed,  46 

On  whom  my  eye  was  fixed,  I  turned  it  back 

To  look  upon  the  rest  of  the  ill-born. 
I  saw  one  made  in  fashion  as  a  lute,  49 

Provided  only  he  had  had  his  groin 

Cut  short  at  that  part  where  a  man  is  forked. 
The  heavy  dropsy,  which  unpairs  the  limbs  52 

With  ill-digested  humor,  in  such  wise 

That  face  and  belly  do  not  correspond. 
Was  causing  him  to  hold  his  lips  apart  55 

As  does  the  hectic  who,  because  of  thirst 

Turns  one  toward  the  chin,  the  other  up. 
*'0  ye  who  have  not  any  punishment, —  58 

And  why,  I  know  not, — in  this  grievous  world, ' ' 

Said  he  to  us,  ''behold  and  contemplate 
The  misery  of  Master  Adam;  when  alive,  61 

I  had  enough  of  what  I  wished,  and  now, 

Alas !  one  little  drop  of  water  crave ! 
The  little  brooks,  that  in  the  Casentino  64 

Flow  toward  the  Arno  down  the  hills  of  green. 


124  THE  DIVINE  COMEDY 

Causing  their  channels  to  be  cool  and  soft, 
Ever  before  me  stand,  and  not  in  vain,  ^7 

Because  their  image  dries  me  up  far  more, 

Than  does  the  malady  whereby  I  strip 
My  face  of  flesh.    The  rigid  Justice,  which  70 

Is  scouring  me,  at  that  place  where  I  sinned, 

Finds  means  to  put  my  sighs  in  flight  the  more. 
There  is  Romena,  where  I  falsified  73 

The  coinage  that  did  bear  the  Baptist's  stamp. 

For  which  I  left  above  my  body  burnt. 
But  could  I  see  the  wretched  soul  of  Guido,  7« 

Or  Alessandro,  or  their  brother  here, 

For  Fontebranda  I  'd  not  give  the  sight. 
One  is  already  in,  if  the  mad  shades  79 

That  go  around  speak  true ;  but  what 

Does  that  avail  me,  who  have  my  limbs  bound  ? 
If  I  were  only  still  so  light,  that  I  82 

Could  in  a  hundred  years  advance  one  inch, 

I  should  have  started  on  the  way  already. 
In  search  of  him  among  the  ugly  folk,  85 

Although  it  circles  for  eleven  miles 

And  is  not  less  than  half  a  mile  across. 
Through  them  am  I  in  such  a  family ;  88 

They  led  me  on  to  strike  the  flower-coins, 

That  had  indeed  three  carats  of  alloy." 
And  I  to  him:  "Who  are  the  wretched  two,  W 

That  steam  like  wet  bauds  in  the  winter-time, 

And  close  together  lie  at  thy  right  confines  ? '  * 
**I  found  them  here,"  he  answered,  **when  I  rained         ^* 

Into  this  chasm ;  and,  since,  they  have  not  given 

A  turn,  nor  will  they  ever,  as  I  think. 
The  false  one,  by  whom  Joseph  was  accused  '7 

Is  one ;  the  other,  Sinon,  the  false  Greek 

From  Troy;  sharp  fever  makes  them  smell  so  burnt" 


INFERNO,  XXX  125 

And  one  of  them  who  took  offence,  perhaps,  100 

At  being  named  so  darkly,  with  his  fist 
Struck  him  who  spoke  upon  the  hardened  paunch 

Which  gave  a  sound  as  though  it  were  a  drum ;  103 

And  Master  Adam  struck  him  with  his  arm 
Which  did  not  seem  less  hard,  upon  the  face, 

Saying  to  him :  ' '  Although  I  am  deprived  106 

Of  motion  by  my  heaviness  of  limb, 
I  have  one  arm  free  for  such  need  as  this. ' ' 

To  which  he  said :  "When  going  to  the  fire  109 

Thou  hadst  it  not  thus  ready ;  but  thou  hadst 
It  so,  and  more,  when  thou  didst  make  the  coins. ' ' 

He  of  the  dropsy:  *'Thou  say'st  true  of  this;  112 

But  thou  wast  not  so  true  a  witness  there 
When  thou  wast  questioned  of  the  truth  at  Troy.  * ' 

* '  If  I  spoke  false,  thou  madest  the  false  coin, ' '  US 

Said  Sinon ;  ' '  I  am  here  for  one  crime,  but 
For  more  than  any  other  demon,  thou.'* 

** Remember,  perjurer,  the  horse,"  replied  118 

The  one  with  the  inflated  paunch,  * '  and  may  it 
Hurt  thee  that  all  the  world  should  know  of  it." 

"And  may  the  thirst  hurt  thee,  that  cracks  thy  tongue,    121 
And  that  foul  water, ' '  said  the  Greek,  ' '  that  makes 
Thy  belly  such  a  hedge  before  thine  eyes!" 

The  coiner  then :  ' '  Thy  mouth  is  gaping  so  124 

To  its  own  harm,  as  is  its  wont;  if  I 
Am  thirsty  and  a  humor  stuffs  me  up. 

Thou  hast  a  burning  and  a  head  that  aches ;  127" 

To  lap  the  mirror  of  Narcissus  thou 
Wouldst  to  invite  thee  not  need  many  words." 

I  was  all  fixed  in  listening  to  them  when  130 

The  Master  said  to  me :  "  Now  just  look  on ! 
For  little  I  were  quarreling  with  thee. '  * 

When  I  heard  him  in  anger  speak  to  me,  133 


126  THE  DIVINE  COMEDY 

I  turned  me  toward  him  with  such  shame,  that  still 

It  is  revolving  in  my  memory. 
And  like  to  one  who  dreams  of  his  own  harm,  1^ 

And,  dreaming,  wishes  that  it  be  a  dream, 

Longing,  as  though  it  were  not,  for  what  is, 
Did  I  become,  without  the  power  to  speak,  1^9 

Who  fain  excused  myself,  and  did  excuse, 

And  thought  not  that  I  did  it,  all  the  while. 
*  *  Less  shame  doth  wash  away  a  greater  fault,  *  *  ^^ 

The  Master  said,  ''than  thine  has  been;  therefore 

Of  all  thy  sadness  lay  aside  the  load; 
Account  that  I  am  always  at  thy  side,  1*5 

If  it  again  befall  that  Fortune  find  thee 

Where  there  are  those  in  like  dispute,  because 
Desire  to  hear  it  is  a  base  desire. ' '  1*8 


CANTO  XXXI 

One  and  the  same  tongue  first  so  wounded  me 

That  it  tinged  both  my  cheeks,  and  afterwards 

Supplied  to  me  the  means  that  healed  again. 
In  such  a  way,  I  hear,  Achilles'  lance, —  ^  "^  * 

His  father's  erst, — was  wont  to  be  the  cause 

First  of  a  sad  and  then  of  a  good  gift. 
We  turned  our  backs  on  the  great  vale  of  woe  ^ 

And  up,  over  the  bank  that  girds  it  round 

Went  on  our  way  across  without  a  word. 
Here  it  was  less  than  night  and  less  than  day,  1® 

So  that  my  sight  went  little  forward ;  but 

I  heard  a  horn  give  forth  a  blast  so  loud, 
It  had  made  feeble  any  thunder-clap ;  ^^ 

Which  turned  my  eyes,  that  followed  back  its  course 

Upon  itself,  entirely  to  one  place. 


INFERNO,  XXXI  127 

After  the  dolorous  rout,  when  Charlemagne  IC 

Had  lost  the  consecrated  multitude, 

Roland  gave  not  so  terrible  a  blast. 
Not  long  had  I  my  head  turned  thitherward  19 

When  many  lofty  towers  I  seemed  to  see; 

Whereat  I:  ''Master,  say,  what  city  this?" 
And  he  to  me :  ' '  Because  thou  hastenest  on  22 

Through  darkness  from  too  far  away,  it  comes 

That  the  imagining  that  follows,  errs. 
Thou  wilt  see  plainly,  if  thou  reachest  there,  25 

How  much  the  sense  is  cheated  when  far  off ; 

Give  thyself  therefore  somewhat  more  the  spur." 
Then  tenderly  he  took  me  by  the  hand,  28 

And  said:  "Before  we  further  onward  go. 

So  that  the  fact  may  seem  less  strange  to  thee, 
Know  thou  that  these  not  towers  but  giants  are,  31 

And,  from  the  navel  downward,  all  of  them 

Are  in  the  pit  around  about  the  bank. ' ' 
As  in  the  dissipating  mist,  the  look  34 

Little  by  little  gives  its  shape  again 

To  that  which  the  air-thickening  vapor  hides. 
So,  piercing  through  the  gross,  dark  air,  as  we  37 

Were  drawing  ever  nearer  to  the  brink. 

My  error  fled  away,  and  my  fear  grew. 
For  as  upon  the  round,  enclosing  wall  40 

Montereggione  crowns  itself  with  towers. 

So  was  the  bank  that  winds  about  the  pit 
Set  with  the  towers  of  half  the  very  forms  43 

Of  giants  horrible,  whom  Jove  from  heaven 

Is  threatening  still  when  he  is  thundering. 
And  now  I  could  discern  of  one  the  face,  4^ 

Shoulders  and  breast,  and  of  the  belly  much, 

And  both  the  arms  that  hung  down  by  his  sides. 
Certainly  Nature,  when  she  left  the  art  49 


128  THE  DIVINE  COMEDY 

Of  creatures  thus  made,  did  exceeding  well 

To  take  such  executioners  from  Mars; 
And  if  she  of  the  elephants  and  whales  52 

Does  not  repent,  whoever  subtly  looks 

Holds  her  in  that  more  just  and  more  discreet ; 
For  where  the  instrument  of  mind  is  added  55 

Unto  the  evil  will  and  to  the  power. 

The  race  can  make  against  it  no  defence. 
His  face  appeared  to  me  as  long  and  large  ^ 

As  is  Saint  Peter's  cone  at  Rome;  and  such 

In  their  proportion  were  the  other  bones; 
So  that  the  bank,  which  from  his  middle  down  •! 

Was  as  an  apron,  showed  so  much  of  him 

Above  it  fully,  that  three  Frieslanders 
Would  make  ill  boast  to  reach  up  to  his  hair.  W 

For  I  could  see  thirty  great  palms  of  him 

Downward  from  where  one  buckles  on  his  cloak. 
**Rafel  mai  amech  zabi  almi,"  ^7 

Began  thus  crying  out  the  savage  mouth, 

To  which  no  sweeter  psalms  were  suitable. 
And  toward  him  turned  my  Leader :  ' '  Foolish  soul,  70 

Keep  to  thy  horn,  and  with  that  vent  thyself 

When  wrath  or  other  passion  touches  thee. 
Seek  at  thy  neck,  and  thou  wilt  find  the  cord  ^ 

That  holds  it  tied,  0  thou  confused  soul, 

And  see  it  curving  over  thy  great  breast. ' ' 
Then  said  to  me :  * '  Himself  is  his  accuser ;  '^^ 

This  is  that  Nimrod,  through  whose  evil  thought 

One  language  only  is  not  used  on  earth. 
Leave  we  him  standing,  speak  we  not  in  vain;  79 

For  such  as  every  language  is  to  him, 

Is  his  to  others,  which  to  none  is  known.*' 
Therefore  we  made  our  journey  longer,  now  ^ 

Turned  to  the  left;  and  at  a  cross-bow  shot 


INFERNO,  XXXI  129 

We  found  the  next  one,  far  more  fierce  and  large. 
Who  could  have  been  the  master  to  gird  him  85 

I  can  not  say;  but  he  had  his  right  arm 

Pinioned  behind  him,  and  in  front  his  left. 
With  such  a  chain  as  held  him  bound  about  88 

From  the  neck  downward  and  the  uncovered  part 

Within  a  five-fold  turning  had  enwound. 
**This  haughty  one  once  willed  to  make  the  trial  91 

Of  his  own  power  against  the  most  high  Jove,'' 

My  Leader  said,  ''and  from  it  has  earned  this. 
Ephialtes  named,  he  made  the  mighty  tests  9^ 

When  giants  made  the  gods  afraid;  the  arms 

Which  he  used  then,  he  nevermore  shall  move.'* 
And  I  to  him :  ''  If  it  be  possible,  97 

I  would  that  of  immense  Briareus 

My  eyes  might  have  experience."    Whereat 
He  answered:  "Thou  shalt  see  not  far  from  here  1^0 

Antaeus,  who  unfettered  speaks,  and  who 

Will  put  us  at  the  bottom  of  all  sin. 
Much  further  on  is  he  whom  thou  wouldst  see ;  103 

And  he  is  bound,  and  formed  like  this  one,  save 

That  in  his  countenance  he  seems  more  fierce.*' 
Never  was  earthquake  yet  so  violent  106 

To  shake  a  tower  so  mightily  as  then 

Was  Ephialtes,  quick  to  shake  himself. 
Then  feared  I  more  than  ever  death,  and  naught  109 

Was  lacking  to  it  save  the  fright  alone. 

If  I  had  not  beheld  his  twisted  bonds. 
We  then  proceeding  further  forward,  came  112 

Up  to  Antaeus,  who  rose  full  five  ells. 

Besides  his  head,  above  the  rocky  edge. 
* '  0  thou  who  in  that  valley  big  with  fate,  115 

That  made  of  Scipio  an  heir  of  glory. 

When  Hannibal  and  those  with  him  turned  back, 


127 


130  THE  DIVINE  COMEDY 

Didst  bring  a  thousand  lions  once,  thy  prey;  1^^ 

And  who,  if  thou  hadst  been  in  that  high  war 

Thy  brethren  waged,  it  seems  that  men  think  still 
That  Earth's  sons  would  have  been  victorious ;  121 

Set  us  below, — disdain  not  so  to  do — 

There  where  Cocytus  is  locked  up  by  cold. 
Make  us  not  go  to  Tityus,  nor  Typhon ;  124 

This  one  can  give  of  that  which  here  is  longed  for ; 

Therefore  stoop  thou,  and  do  not  curl  thy  lip. 
He  in  the  world  can  yet  restore  thy  fame. 

For  he  doth  live  and  still  await  long  life, 

If  ere  that  time  Grace  call  him  not  to  her.*' 
Thus  said  the  Master,  and  that  one  in  haste  130 

Stretched  out  the  hands,  whose  grip  once  Hercules 

Felt  mightily,  and  took  my  Leader  up. 
When  Virgil  felt  himself  thus  seized,  1^ 

He  said  to  me :  *  *  Come  hither  that  I  may 

Seize  thee ; ' '  then  made  one  bundle  of  us  both. 
As  seems  the  Carisenda.when  one  looks  18* 

Up  by  its  sloping  side  when  a  cloud  moves 

So  over  it,  that  it  hangs  counterwise; 
Such  seemed  Antaeus  to  me  as  I  stood  189 

Watching  to  see  him  stoop ;  the  moment  such, 

I  could  have  wished  to  go  another  road. 
But  lightly  in  the  depth  which  swallows  up  1** 

Judas  with  Lucifer  he  set  us  down; 

Nor  made  he  there  a  tarrying,  thus  bent, 
But  lifted  himself  up  like  mast  in  ship.  1*5 

CANTO  XXXII 

Had  I  such  verses  harsh  and  hoarse  of  sound 
As  would  be  fitting  for  this  dismal  hole. 
On  which  the  other  rocks  all  thrust  their  weight, 


INFERNO,  XXXII  131 

I  would  in  greater  fulness  press  the  juice  * 

Of  my  conceptions;  but,  as  I  have  not, 

Not  without  fear  I  bring  myself  to  speak; 
For  to  describe  of  all  the  universe  7 

The  bottom,  is  no  task  to  take  up  lightly. 

Nor  for  a  tongue  that  ^' Mamma!*'  and  ^^Papa!"  cries. 
But  may  those  Ladies  aid  my  verse,  that  gave  10 

Aid  to  Amphion  in  enclosing  Thebes, 

So  that  the  word  and  fact  be  not  diverse. 
Rabble  beyond  all  others  miscreated,  13 

Now  in  the  place,  to  speak  of  which  is  hard, 

It  were  better  had  ye  here  been  sheep  or  goats ! 
When  we  were  down  in  the  dark  pit,  beneath  1^ 

The  giant's  feet,  and  lower  yet  by  far, 

I  was  still  gazing  at  the  lofty  wall. 
When  I  heard  said  to  me :  ''Look  to  thy  steps !  19 

Go  so  that  thou  tread  not  beneath  thy  soles 

The  miserable,  weary  brothers'  heads." 
Whereat  I  turned,  and  saw  in  front  of  me  22 

And  underneath  my  feet  a  lake  which  frozen 

Had  semblance  not  of  water  but  of  glass. 
So  thick  a  veil  the  Danube  never  made  25 

In  winter  for  its  course  in  Austria, 

Nor  yet  the  Don  beneath  yon  frigid  sky, 
As  there  was  here;  because  if  Tambernich,  28 

Or  Pietrapana,  down  on  it  had  fallen. 

It  had  not  given  a  creak,  even  at  the  edge. 
And  as  the  frog,  that  it  may  croak,  will  stay  31 

With  muzzle  out  of  water,  when  of  gleaning 

The  peasant- woman  oftentimes  will  dream; 
So  up  to  where  the  hue  of  shame  appears,  34 

Livid,  the  woful  shades  were  in  the  ice. 

Setting  their  teeth  to  give  the  note  of  storks. 
Each  held  his  face  turned  downward ;  from  the  mouth      37 


132  THE  DIVINE  COMEDY 

The  cold,  and  from  the  eyes  the  saddened  heart 

Gives  evidence  among  them  of  itself. 
When  I  had  looked  about  me  for  a  while  40 

I  turned  me  to  my  feet,  and  saw  there  two 

So  close,  the  hair  upon  their  heads  was  mixed. 
*  *  Say  who  ye  are, ' '  said  I,  * '  who  hold  your  breasts  43 

So  close  together. ' '    And  they  bent  their  necks, 

And  after  they  had  raised  their  looks  to  me, 
Their  eyes,  which  only  inwardly  before  ^ 

Were  moist,  gushed  o'er  the  lids,  and  cold. 

Binding  the  tears  between  them,  sealed  them  up. 
Never  was  plank  so  strongly  bound  to  plank  ^ 

By  clamp ;  and  thereupon,  like  two  he-goats, 

They  butted  both,  with  anger  overcome. 
And  one  of  them,  who  by  the  cold  had  lost  52 

Both  ears,  with  face  still  bending  downward,  said: 

''Why  dost  thou  gaze  so  fixedly  at  us? 
If  thou  desirest  to  know  who  are  these  two,  '  55 

The  valley  down  which  the  Bisenzio  flows 

Was  once  their  father  Albert's  and  their  own. 
They  issued  from  one  body;  thou  mayst  search  58 

Through  all  Caina  and  thou  wilt  not  find 

A  shade  more  worthy  to  be  jellied  fast; 
Not  he,  of  whom  the  breast  and  shadow  both  ^I 

One  self -same  blow  from  Arthur 's  hand  broke  through ; 

And  not  Focaccia;  not  this  one,  whose  head 
Obstructs  me  so,  I  can  not  see  beyond,  04 

Named  Sassol  Mascheroni.    If  thou  art 

A  Tuscan,  well  thou  know'st  now  who  he  was. 
And  that  thou  put  me  not  to  further  speech,  ^^ 

Know  I  was  Camicion  de'  Pazzi;  I  await 

Carlino  's  coming  to  make  my  excuse. ' ' 
Later  I  saw  a  thousand  faces,  grown  70 

Dog-like  through  cold ;  whence  comes  to  me  a  shudder, 


INFERNO,  XXXII  133 

And  will  come  evermore,  at  frozen  pools. 
And  as  we  went  along  toward  the  centre  73 

To  which  all  gravity  collects,  and  I 

Was  shivering  in  the  eternal  cold. 
If  it  was  will  or  destiny  or  chance  76 

I  know  not ;  but,  walking  among  the  heads 

I  struck  my  foot  hard  in  the  face  of  one. 
Weeping  it  cried  to  me :  "  Why  dost  thou  kick  me  ?  79 

Unless  thou  com'st  to  make  the  vengeance  more 

For  Montaperti,  why  molest  me,  thou  ? ' ' 
And  I:  **My  Master,  now  wait  for  me  here,  82 

That  I  through  this  one  may  come  out  of  doubt ; 

Then  thou  shalt  make  me  hasten  as  thou  wilt." 
The  Leader  stopped ;  and  I  said  to  that  one  85 

Who  still  kept  on  with  cursing  in  his  rage : 

* '  Of  what  sort  thou,  that  chidest  others  thus  ? ' ' 
**Now  who  art  thou,  that  goest,"  he  replied,  88 

** Through  Antenora,  smiting  others'  cheeks, 

So  that,  were  I  alive,  it  were  too  much?" 
**I  am  alive,  and  if  thou  wouldst  have  fame,"  ^1 

Was  my  reply,  *'it  may  be  dear  to  thee, 

I  put  thy  name  among  my  other  notes. ' ' 
And  he  to  me :  "  The  contrary  I  want ;  9* 

Take  thyself  off ;  give  me  no  more  annoyance ; 

111  knowest  thou  how  to  flatter  in  this  swamp." 
Then  at  the  nape  I  seized  him  by  the  hair,  97 

And  said :  "  It  shall  be  that  thou  name  thyself, 

Or  that  no  hair  remain  upon  thee  here." 
Whence  he  to  me :  "  Though  thou  tear  out  my  hair,  100 

I  will  not  tell  thee  who  I  am,  nor  show  thee. 

Trample  a  thousand  times  upon  my  head." 
I  had  his  hair  now  twisted  in  my  hand  103 

And  had  pulled  out  more  than  one  tuft  for  him, 

Who  barked  and  kept  his  eyes  held  firmly  down ; 


134  THE  DIVINE  COMEDY 

Then  cried  another :  *  *  Bocca,  what  ails  thee^  106 

Is  it  not  enough  thy  jaws  should  make  a  noise, 
Without  thou  bark?  what  devil  handles  thee?" 

**Now,"  said  I,  **I  wish  not  that  thou  shouldst  speak,      10^ 
Accursed  traitor,  for  to  thy  disgrace 
I  will  give  tidings  of  thee  that  are  true." 

**Go  off,"  he  answered,  **and  tell  what  thou  wilt;  1^2 

But  be  not  silent  about  him  who  now 
Had  such  a  ready  tongue,  if  thou  go  forth 

From  here  within.    He  is  lamenting  here  115 

The  Frenchmen's  silver.    Thou  canst  say,  'I  saw 
Him  of  Duera  where  sinners  stand  a-cold.  * 

Shouldst  thou  be  asked  who  else  was  there,  thou  hast      H® 
Him  of  the  Beccheria  at  thy  side. 
Whose  gorge  was  cut  by  Florence.    Farther  on 

Is,  I  believe,  Gianni  de'  Soldanier  121 

With  Ganelon,  and  Tribaldello,  who 
Opened  Faenza  when  its  people  slept." 

We  had  already  parted  from  that  one  124 

When  I  saw  two  so  frozen  in  one  hole, 
One  head  was  to  the  other  as  a  hood ; 

And  as  one  in  his  hunger  bites  his  bread,  127 

So  had  the  upper  one  set  in  his  teeth 
There  where  the  other's  brain  joined  with  his  nape. 

It  was  not  otherwise  than  Tydeus  gnawed  130 

At  Menalippus'  temples  for  despite. 
Than  this  one  did  the  skull  and  other  parts. 

*  *  0  thou  that  showest  by  so  bestial  token  183 

Hatred  of  him  whom  thou  dost  eat, ' '  said  I, 
**Tell  me  the  wherefore,  on  condition  such 

That  if  thou  rightly  do  complain  of  him,  136 

I,  knowing  who  ye  are  and  what  his  sin. 
May  yet  requite  thee  for  it,  up  on  earth, 

If  that,  with  which  I  speak,  be  not  dried  up."  139 


INFERNO,  XXXIII  135 


CANTO  XXXIII 


Lifting  his  mouth  up  from  his  fell  repast 

That  sinner  wiped  it  on  the  hair  upon 

The  head  which  he  had  at  the  back  despoiled. 
Then  he  began:  ''Thou  wilt  that  I  renew  ^ 

Desperate  grief,  which  weighs  down  on  my  heart 

At  the  mere  thought  now,  ere  I  speak  of  it. 
But  if  my  words  shall  be  a  seed  to  raise  7 

Infamy  to  the  traitor  that  I  gnaw. 

Thou  shalt  behold  me  speak  and  weep  together. 
I  know  not  who  thou  art,  nor  by  what  mode  1^ 

Down  hither  thou  art  come;  but  Florentine 

Thou  seemest  verily,  when  I  hear  thee. 
I  was  Count  Ugolino,  thou  shalt  know,  1* 

This  one  the  archbishop  Ruggieri ;  now 

"Why  I  am  such  a  neighbor  I  will  tell  thee. 
That  through  the  working  of  his  evil  thoughts  1^ 

I,  who  had  put  my  trust  in  him  was  seized 

And  later  put  to  death,  need  not  be  said. 
But  that  which  thou  canst  not  have  heard,  that  is,  ^^ 

How  cruel  was  my  death,  thou  shalt  hear  now. 

And  know  if  he  has  given  me  offence. 
A  narrow  loop-hole  in  the  mew,  which  has  22 

From  me  its  name  of  '  Hunger, '  and  in  which 

Hereafter  others  are  to  be  shut  up, 
Had  shown  me  now  athwart  its  opening  25 

Moon  after  moon,  when  I  had  the  bad  dream 

Which  of  the  future  rent  for  me  the  veil. 
This  one  appeared  to  me  master  and  lord,  28 

Chasing  the  wolf  and  whelps  upon  the  mountain 

Concealing  Lucca  from  the  Pisans'  sight. 
"With  lean  hounds,  that  were  eager  and  well  trained,  31 


136  THE  DIVINE  COMEDY 

Gualandi  with  Sismondi  and,  besides, 

Lanfranchi  he  had  put  in  front  of  him. 
After  short  course  the  father  and  his  sons  34 

Seemed  to  me  weary,  and  it  seemed  to  me 

As  though  I  saw  the  sharp  fangs  slit  their  flanks. 
When  I  before  the  morrow  was  awake,  37 

I  could  hear  how  my  sons  who  were  with  me. 

Were  moaning  in  their  sleep,  asking  for  bread. 
Cruel  indeed  art  thou,  if  now  thou  grieve  not  ^ 

To  think  of  the  forebodings  of  my  heart ; 

What  dost  thou  weep  at  if  thou  weep  not  now ! 
They  were  awake,  and  now  the  time  drew  near  ^ 

When  commonly  the  food  was  brought  to  us. 

And  each  was  in  suspense  about  his  dream ; 
And  then  the  horrible  tower's  door  below  ^ 

I  heard  nailed  up ;  whereat  without  a  word 

I  looked  into  the  faces  of  my  sons. 
I  wept  not,  so  to  stone  I  turned  within ;  *^ 

They  wept,  and  my  poor  little  Anselm  said: 

'Thou  gazest  so;  father,  what  aileth  thee?' 
But  I  shed  not  a  tear,  nor  answered  I  52 

Through  all  that  day,  nor  the  night  after  it, 

Until  the  next  sun  came  forth  on  the  world. 
When  now  a  little  beam  had  made  its  way  55 

Into  the  woful  prison  and  I  caught 

My  very  aspect  in  four  faces,  then 
Both  of  my  hands  for  grief  I  bit,  and  they,  58 

Thinking  that  I  had  done  it  through  desire 

Of  eating,  suddenly  rose  up,  and  said ; 
'Father,  much  less  will  be  our  pain,  if  thou  •I 

Wilt  eat  of  us ;  it  is  thou  didst  clothe  us  with 

This  wretched  flesh,  and  do  thou  strip  it  off.' 
I  calmed  me  then  not  to  make  them  more  sad,  •* 

And  that  day  and  the  next  we  all  stayed  dumb. 


INFERNO,  XXXIII  137 

Ah,  why  didst  thou  not  open,  thou  hard  earth  ? 
And  after  we  had  come  to  the  fourth  day  67 

At  my  feet  Gaddo  threw  himself  stretched  out, 

Saying :  '  My  father,  why  dost  thou  not  help  me  ? ' 
He  died  there ;  and  as  thou  seest  me,  I  saw  70 

The  three  fall  one  by  one  between  the  fifth 

And  sixth  days;  whereupon  I  set  myself. 
Already  blind,  to  groping  over  each,  73 

And  two  days  called  them,  after  they  were  dead ; 

Then  fasting  was  more  powerful  than  grief/' 
"When  he  had  said  this,  with  his  eyes  awry  76 

He  seized  the  wretched  skull  again  with  teeth 

That  were  upon  the  bone  strong  as  a  dog's. 
Ah,  Pisa,  thou  dishonor  of  the  peoples  79 

Of  the  fair  country  where  the  si  doth  sound, 

Since  those  near  by  are  slow  to  punish  thee, 
Let  both  Caprara  and  Gorgona  move  82 

And  make  a  hedge  for  Arno  at  its  mouth 

So  that  it  drown  all  living  souls  in  thee. 
For  though  Count  Ugolino  had  the  name  85 

Of  traitor  to  thee  in  thy  fortresses. 

Thou  shouldest  not  have  put  to  such  a  cross 
His  sons ;  for  their  young  age  made  Uguccione  88 

And  II  Brigata  innocent,  thou  Thebes 

Today,  and  those  two  whom  my  song  has  named. 
"We  passed  now  further  on  to  where  the  ice  91 

Ruggedly  wraps  another  people  in, 

Not  downward  bent,  but  wholly  backward  thrown. 
The  very  weeping  hinders  weeping  there ;  9^ 

The  grief,  which  finds  obstruction  in  their  eyes. 

Turns  inward  to  increase  their  suffering; 
Because  the  tears  first  flowing  form  a  mass ;  97 

And  like  to  crystal  vizors  they  fill  up 

Beneath  the  eyebrows  all  the  cavity. 


138  THE  DIVINE  COMEDY 

Although  all  feeling  now  because  of  cold  100 

Had  ceased  within  my  features  to  abide, 

As  in  a  callous  place,  it  seemed  to  me 
That  I  felt  now  a  wind ;  whereat  I  said :  103 

**My  Master,  who  is  causing  this  to  move? 

For  is  not  here  below  all  vapor  quenched?'* 
He  thereupon  to  me:  **Anon  shalt  thou  106 

Be  where  thine  eye  shall  answer  this  for  thee, 

Beholding  that  which  makes  the  blast  rain  down.*' 
And  one  among  the  wretched  cried  to  us  109 

From  that  cold  crust :  "  0  ye  so  cruel  souls 

That  the  last  station  has  been  given  you. 
Remove  for  me  the  hard  veils  from  my  face,  112 

That  I  may  vent  the  grief  that  swells  my  heart, 

Somewhat,  before  the  weeping  freeze  again. ' ' 
Whence  I  to  him :  ' '  If  thou  wilt  that  I  aid  thee,  US 

Say  who  thou  art ;  if  I  relieve  thee  not, 

May  I  go  to  the  bottom  of  the  ice.** 
He  answered  then:  **I  am  Fra  Alberigo;  118 

He  of  the  fruits  am  I,  of  that  bad  garden. 

And  am  here  getting  back  dates  for  my  figs.** 
' '  Oh !  * '  said  I  to  him,  *  *  art  already  dead  ?  *  *  121 

And  he  to  me :  *  *  How,  in  the  world  above, 

My  body  fares,  I  have  no  knowledge  here. 
This  Ptolomea  has  such  privilege,  124 

That  oftentimes  the  soul  will  fall  down  hither 

Ere  Atropos  has  given  it  a  thrust. 
And  that  thou  mayst  more  willingly  remove  127 

The  glassy  tears  from  off  my  face,  know  thou 

That  from  the  moment  that  the  soul  betrays 
As  I  did,  does  a  demon  seize  upon  130 

Her  body,  and  thereafter  governs  it 
Until  its  time  completely  be  revolved. 
She  plunges  to  the  cistern  fashioned  thus;  133 


INFERNO,  XXXIV  139 

Perhaps  the  body  still  appears  above 

Of  this  shade  here,  behind  me  wintering.    "^ 
Thou  must  know  him,  if  thou  cam'st  down  just  now:      136 

He  is  Ser  Branca  d'  Oria;  many  years 

Have  passed  away  since  he  was  thus  shut  up/' 
**Thou  art  deceiving  me,  I  think,"  said  I,  139 

''For  Branca  d'  Oria  is  by  no  means  dead, 

But  eats  and  drinks  and  sleeps  and  puts  on  clothes. '  * 
**The  ditch  of  Malebranche  up  above,"  142 

Said  he,  ''there  where  doth  boil  the  sticky  pitch, 

Had  Michel  Zanche  not  yet  reached,  before 
This  one  had  left  a  devil  in  his  stead  145 

In  his  own  body;  in  his  kinsman's,  too, 

Who  did  the  treachery  along  with  him. 
But  stretch  thy  hand  now  hither;  open  thou  148 

My  eyes ; ' '  and  I  for  him  opened  them  not, 

And  to  be  rude  to  him  was  courtesy. 
Ah,  Genoese,  ye  men  estranged  from  all  151 

Right  living,  and  of  all  corruption  full, 

Why  are  ye  not  scattered  from  off  the  earth? 
For  with  Romagna's  basest  spirit  I  154 

Found  such  an  one  of  you  as  for  his  deeds 

Already  in  Cocytus  bathes  his  soul, 
And  seems  a  living  body  still  above.  157 


CANTO  XXXIV 

"Vexilla  regis  prodeunt  inferni 

Toward  us;  therefore  see  in  front  of  them," 
My  Master  said,  "if  thou  discernest  him." 

As  when  thick  fog  is  breathing,  or  as  when 
Our  hemisphere  is  passing  into  night, 
Appears  far  off  a  mill  which  the  wind  turns: 


140  THE  DIVINE  COMEDY 

E'en  such  a  structure  I  appeared  to  see,  7 

And  shrank  behind  my  Leader,  for  the  wind, 
Because  there  was  no  other  shelter  there. 

I  was  now  where — with  fear  I  give  it  rhythm —  l^ 

The  shades  are  wholly  covered  up,  and  like 
A  straw  in  glass,  shone  through ;  and  some  of  them 

Are  lying  down,  and  others  stand  up  straight;  1' 

-/>>uf  r         ^^®  ^^  ^^®  head,  another  on  his  soles ; 
•  One  like  a  bow,  his  face  bends  to  his  feet. 

When  we  had  made  our  way  so  far  ahead,  !• 

That  it  now  pleased  my  Master  to  show  me 
The  one  created  with  so  fair  a  form. 

He  from  before  me  took  himself,  and  made  !• 

Me  stop,  saying :  *  *  Lo  Dis,  and  lo  the  place 
Where  thou  must  arm  thyself  with  fortitude." 

How  I  became  then  frozen  and  grew  hoarse,  22 

Ask  me  not,  reader,  for  I  write  it  not. 
Because  but  little  were  all  use  of  words. 

I  died  not,  nor  did  I  remain  alive;  ^ 

Think  for  thyself  now,  if  thou  hast  a  grain 
Of  wit,  what  I  became,  deprived  of  both. 

He,  of  the  realm  of  woe  the  emperor,  ^ 

Stood  from  the  middle  of  his  breast  above 
The  ice ;  and  better  with  a  giant  I 

Compare,  than  do  the  giants  with  his  arms;  W 

See  now  of  how  great  size  that  whole  must  be. 
That  with  a  part  so  fashioned  is  conformed. 

If  he  was  beautiful  as  he  is  foul  •* 

And  did  against  his  Maker  lift  his  brows, 
It  well  befits  that  all  grief  come  from  him. 

Oh,  how  great  seemed  the  marvel  to  me  when  '^ 

Upon  his  head  three  faces  I  beheld  I 
One  was  in  front,  and  that  was  crimson-hued, 

The  others,  two  that  were  adjoined  to  this  *® 


INFERNO,  XXXIV  141 

Above  the  very  middle  of  each  shoulder ; 

And  at  the  place  where  was  the  crest  they  met; 
'Twixt  white  and  yellow  was  the  right ;  the  left  ^3 

"Was  such  to  look  upon  as  theirs  who  come 

From  whence  the  Nile  descends.    Beneath  each  one 
There  were  put  forth  two  mighty  wings  of  size  ^^    ^' 

Such  as  was  fitting  for  so  great  a  bird; 

Sails  on  the  sea  I  never  saw  so  large. 
They  had  no  feathers,  but  their  fashion  was  49 

Like  to  a  bat 's ;  and  he  was  flapping  them 

So  that  three  winds  were  moving  out  from  him. 
Thereby  Cocytus  wholly  turned  to  ice.  ^2 

With  six  eyes  wept  he;  over  his  three  chins 

Trickled  the  bloody  drivel  and  the  tears. 
In  each  mouth  he  was  mangling  with  his  teeth  55 

A  sinner,  as  a  heckle  would  have  done, 

So  that  he  thus  made  woful  three  of  them. 
For  to  the  one  in  front  the  biting  was  ^^ 

Naught  to  the  clawing,  for  at  times  his  back  ^^"^H*;^ 

Remained  with  all  the  skin  stripped  off  from  it. 
*  *  That  soul  up  there  with  greatest  punishment, ' '  ^^ 

The  Master  said,  ' '  Judas  Iscariot  is ; 

His  head  within,  outside  he  plies  his  legs. 
Of  the  two  others  who  have  their  heads  down,  ^ 

Brutus  is  he  who  hangs  from  that  black  mouth; 

See  how  he  writhes  and  utters  not  a  word ; 
Cassius  the  other,  who  seems  so  large  of  limb.  ^7 

But  night  again  is  rising,  and  we  now 

Must  needs  depart,  for  we  have  seen  the  whole." 
As  he  desired,  I  clasped  him  round  the  neck,  70 

And  then  he  seized  the  fitting  time  and  place, 

And  when  the  wings  were  open  wide  enough. 
He  caught  hold  fast  upon  the  shaggy  sides ;  73 

From  shag  to  shag  down  he  descended  then 


i-^ 


142  THE  DIVINE  COMEDY 

Between  the  thick  hair  and  the  frozen  crusts. 
When  we  had  reached  the  place  where  turns  the  thigh      76 

Exactly  on  the  thickness  of  the  haunch, 

The  Leader,  laboring  and  breathing  hard. 
Turned  his  head  there  where  he  had  had  his  legs,  79 

I*'        And  grappled  to  the  hair  as  one  who  mounts, 

So  that  I  thought  us  turning  back  to  hell. 
*'Keep  thou  good  hold,  because  by  stairs  made  thus,'*      82 

The  Master  said,  panting  like  one  fatigued, 

*'From  so  great  evil  we  must  needs  depart.'* 
Then  issuing  through  the  opening  of  a  rock,  85 

He  put  me  on  the  edge  of  it  to  sit ; 

Afterwards  stretched  his  wary  step  toward  me. 
I  raised  my  eyes  and  thought  that  I  should  see  88 

Lucifer's  form  as  I  had  left  it  placed, 

But  saw  him  with  his  legs  held  upward  now ; 
And  if  I  then  became  perplexed  in  mind,  ^^ 

Those  who  are  gross  may  think,  who  do  not  see 

What  was  the  point  that  I  had  passed  beyond. 
*'Rise  up,"  the  Master  said,  ''upon  thy  feet;  W 

The  way  is  long,  the  road  is  difficult; 

Already  to  mid-tierce  the  sun  returns." 
It  was  not  of  a  palace  the  great  hall  ^7 

There  where  we  were,  rather  a  prison-house 

Of  nature,  both  ill-paved  and  lacking  light. 
"Before  I  tear  myself  from  the  abyss,  1^0 

My  Master,"  said  I,  when  once  risen  up, 

* '  To  draw  me  out  of  error,  speak  a  little. 
Where  is  the  ice,  and  how  is  this  one  fixed  ^^^ 

Thus  upside  down  V  and  how  in  so  short  time, 

Has  the  sun  transit  made  from  eve  to  morn?" 
And  he  to  me :  *  *  Thou  still  imaginest  1^ 

Thyself  beyond  the  centre  where  I  seized 

The  hair  of  the  fell  Worm,  piercing  the  world. 


INFERNO,  XXXIV  143 

On  that  side  wast  thou  when  I  made  descent;  109 

And  when  I  turned  me  thou  didst  pass  the  point 
To  which  are  drawn  from  every  side  the  weights; 

Now  thou  art  come  beneath  the  hemisphere  112 

Opposite  that  by  which  the  great  dry  land 
Is  covered,  and  beneath  whose  weight  consumed 

Was  He,  whose  birth  and  life  were  without  sin.  115 

Thou  hast  thy  feet  upon  a  little  sphere. 
Here  forming  the  Judecca's  other  face. 

Here  it  is  morning  when  it  is  evening  yonder ;  118 

This  one,  who  made  our  ladder  of  his  hair, 
Is  still  fixed,  even  as  he  was  before. 

On  this  side  fell  he  down  from  out  of  heaven,  121 

And  earth,  before  spread  out  upon  this  side, 
For  fear  of  him  made  of  the  sea  a  veil, 

And  came  to  our  hemisphere ;  and  to  escape  124 

Perchance  from  him,  what  on  this  side  appears 
Left  here  the  vacant  place,  and  rushed  up  back.*' 

A  place  is  there  below,  distant  as  far  127 

As  from  Beelzebub  his  tomb  extends, 
"Which  not  by  sight  but  by  the  sound  is  known 

Of  a  small  stream,  that  here  descends  along  130 

The  hollow  of  a  rock  which  it  has  worn 
With  flowing  down  its  winding,  gentle  slope. 

That  hidden  way  the  Leader  and  myself  133 

Entered  upon,  to  the  bright  world  returning ; 
And  with  no  care  of  having  any  rest 

We  mounted,  he  first  and  I  second,  up  136 

So  far  that  I  through  a  round  opening 
Beheld  the  things  of  beauty  heaven  bears; 

Thence  we  came  forth  again  to  see  the  stars.  139 


) 


PURGATORIO 


PURGATORIO 


CANTO  I 


To  run  o  'er  better  waters  now  hoists  sail 

The  little  vessel  of  my  genius  as 

She  leaves  behind  her  such  a  cruel  sea; 
And  of  that  second  realm  I  sing  wherein  4 

The  human  spirit  purifies  itself 

And  so  grows  worthy  to  ascend  to  heaven. 
But  grant,  0  holy  Muses,  whose  am  I,  7 

That  here  dead  poesy  may  rise  again; 

And  here  may  too  Calliope  somewhat 
Arise,  and  join  unto  my  song  that  note  1® 

The  stroke  of  which  the  wretched  Picae  felt 

And  knew  there  waS  no  pardon  evermore. 
Sweet  color,  like  an  orient  sapphire's,  now  13 

Was  gathering  within  the  sky,  serene 

From  the  clear  zenith  to  the  primal  round. 
And  brought  again  delight  unto  my  eyes  1^ 

As  soon  as  I  came  forth  from  that  dead  air. 

Which  had  been  grievous  both  to  eyes  and  breast ; 
And  the  fair  planet  which  incites  to  love  1^ 

Was  making  all  the  eastern  sky  to  laugh, 

Veiling  the  Fishes  that  were  in  her  train. 
Toward  the  right  hand  turning  I  observed  22 

The  other  pole,  and  saw  four  stars  that  yet 

Were  never  seen  but  by  the  primal  race. 
The  heavens  seemed  rejoicing  in  their  flames.  25 


148  THE  DIVINE  COMEDY 

0  region  of  the  north,  widowed  art  thou, 
For  thou  hast  been  deprived  of  sight  of  these ! 

When  I  from  gazing  at  them  had  withdrawn  28 

And  turned  a  little  to  the  other  pole. 

Where  now  the  Wain  was  no  more  to  be  seen, 
I  saw  near  by  me  an  old  man,  alone,  81 

In  aspect  worthy  of  such  reverence, 

That  more  was  ne  'er  due  sire  from  a  son. 
Long  was  his  beard  and  mingled  with  white  hair,  34 

In  manner  like  unto  his  locks,  of  which 

A  double  list  fell  downward  on  his  breast. 
The  rays  of  these  four  holy  lights  adorned  87 

His  countenance  with  such  a  glow,  it  seemed 

That  I  looked  on  as  'twere  a  sun  before  me. 
**Pray,  who  are  ye,  that  up  the  hidden  stream  40 

Have  made  escape  from  the  eternal  prison  ? ' ' 

Said  he,  and  moved  those  honorable  plumes. 
''Who  was  your  guide ?    Who  was  your  lantern  hence,      ^3 

As  ye  came  forth  from  out  that  night  profound, 

Which  leaves  the  infernal  valley  ever  black? 
Are  then  the  laws  of  Hell  so  broken,  or  ^ 

Is  there  in  Heaven  some  new  counsel  taken. 

Whereby  ye  damned  come  hither  to  my  rocks  T* 
And  then  my  Leader,  taking  hold  of  me,  *• 

With  words  and  with  his  hand  and  tokening 

Made  reverential  both  my  brow  and  knee. 
Then  answered  he;  "I  came  not  of  myself;  M 

A  Lady  came  from  Heaven,  at  whose  bidding 

1  aided  this  one  with  my  company. 

But  since  thy  will  is  that  our  true  estate  W 

Shall  now  be  more  unfolded  to  thy  ken. 
Mine  can  not  be  that  thou  shouldst  be  denied. 

This  man  has  not  yet  seen  his  last  day  close,  W 

But  by  his  folly  was  so  near  to  it 


PURGATORIO,  I  149 

That  very  little  time  there  was  to  turn. 
As  I  have  told  thee,  I  was  sent  to  him  61 

To  rescue  him,  nor  was  there  other  way 

Than  this  upon  which  I  have  set  myself. 
The  wicked  I  have  shown  him,  and  I  now  64 

Would  show  those  spirits  that  do  undergo 

Their  purifying  in  thy  guardianship. 
How  I  have  led  him  would  be  long  to  tell :  67 

Know  from  above  comes  down  the  helpful  power 

That  guides  him  hither  to  thy  sight  and  voice. 
So  may  his  coming  please  thee,  for  he  lives  ''O 

In  search  of  liberty,  which  is  so  dear, 

As  he  well  knows  who  spurns  his  life  for  it. 
Thou  know'st,  to  whom  death  for  it  was  not  bitter  73 

In  Utica  where  thou  didst  leave  that  robe. 

Which  on  the  Great  Day  shall  be  found  so  bright. 
The  everlasting  edicts  we  break  not :  ^^ 

He  is  alive,  and  Minos  binds  not  me ; 

I  am  a  dweller  in  that  circle  where 
Are  Marcia's  chaste  eyes,  whose  look  still  prays  '^^ 

That  thou,  0  holy  breast,  wilt  keep  her  thine. 

For  her  love  then  incline  thyself  to  us. 
Grant  us  to  journey  through  thy  seven  realms :  82 

I  will  report  thy  grace  to  her,  if  thou 

Still  deignest  to  be  mentioned  there  below." 
"While  I  was  yonder,"  he  made  answer,  ''so  85 

Was  Marcia  pleasant  in  my  eyes,  that  all 

The  favor  that  she  wished  I  did  for  her. 
But  as  she  dwells  beyond  the  evil  stream,  88 

She  cannot  move  me  longer,  by  that  law 

Made  when  I  issued  thence.    But  if  of  Heaven 
A  Lady  moves  and  governs  thee,  thou  say  'st,  91 

There  is  no  need  of  soft  words ;  let  it  be 

Enough  that  thou  for  her  requirest  me. 


150  THE  DIVINE  COMEDY 

Go  then,  and  see  that  thou  do  gird  this  one  ^4 

With  a  smooth  rush,  and  that  thou  wash  his  face 
So  that  all  stain  be  wiped  away  from  it ; 

For  it  were  not  becoming  that  the  eye,  ^ 

0  'ertaken  by  a  cloud,  should  go  before 
The  first  of  them  that  serve  in  Paradise. 

This  little  island  at  the  very  base,  1<W 

Down  yonder  where  the  waters  beat  on  it, 

Has  rushes  growing  from  the  yielding  ooze. 
No  other  plant  that  should  put  forth  a  leaf  103 

Or  should  grow  hard  could  there  maintain  its  life, 

If  it  bent  not  before  the  beating  waves. 
And  afterwards  return  not  hither ;  lo,  106 

The  sun  is  rising,  and  will  show  you  where 

A  gentler  slope  shall  lead  you  up  the  Mount." 
Therewith  he  disappeared;  and  I  arose,  109 

And  saying  naught  drew  very  close  to  him, 

My  Leader,  and  to  him  raised  up  my  eyes. 
*  *  My  son, "  so  he  began,  '  *  follow  my  steps ;  112 

Here  turn  we  backward,  for  on  this  side  slopes 

This  plain  to  its  low-lying  boundaries. '  * 
The  dawn  was  conquering  the  morning  hour  H* 

In  flight  before  it  now,  so  that  afar 

1  could  discern  the  tremor  of  the  sea. 

We  went  along  the  lonely  plain  like  one  H^ 

Who  turns  to  find  the  path  that  he  had  lost. 
And  till  he  finds  it  seems  to  walk  in  vain. 

When  we  had  reached  a  place  where  still  the  dew  1^1 

Strives  with  the  sun,  but  for  still  being  in 
A  place  of  shade  is  slow  to  disappear, 

Then  both  his  hands  my  Master  gently  spread  1** 

And  put  them  down  upon  the  tender  grass ; 
And  I,  who  was  aware  of  his  intent, 

Held  forth  toward  him  my  cheeks  all  stained  with  tears.  127 


PURGATORIO,  II  151 

Then  he  brought  back,  uncovered  wholly  now, 
That  color  of  my  face  which  Hell  had  hidden. 

We  came  at  last  upon  the  desert  shore,  130 

Which  never  yet  had  seen  its  waters  sailed 
By  craft  of  man  who  afterwards  returned. 

There  he  so  girded  me  as  pleased  the  other;  133 

0  marvel !  for  no  sooner  had  he  culled 
The  lowly  plant,  than  suddenly  there  sprang 

Another  like  it  whence  it  had  been  plucked.  136 


CANTO  II 

The  sun  had  now  to  this  horizon  mounted, 

Whose  noonday  circle  at  its  highest  point 

Sweeps  through  the  zenith  of  Jerusalem; 
And  night  which  circles  opposite  to  him  4 

Was  issuing  from  the  Ganges  with  the  Scales 

Which  fall  from  her  hands'  grasp  when  she  exceeds ; 
So  that  the  beautiful  Aurora's  cheeks,  7 

Where  I  was  then,  began  to  change  from  white 

And  red  to  orange  from  oncoming  age. 
We  still  were  there  beside  the  sea,  like  those  10 

Who  think  about  the  road  and  with  the  heart 

Go  forward  while  the  body  tarries  still. 
When  lo !  as,  at  the  coming  of  the  day,  13 

Through  the  thick  vapors  Mars  glows  red  afar 

Within  the  west  above  the  ocean  floor. 
Appeared, — and  may  I  see  it  yet  again ! —  16 

A  light  that  came  so  swiftly  o  'er  the  sea 

That  like  its  motion  there  was  never  flight ; 
And  when  I  had  withdrawn  my  gaze  from  it  1^ 

A  little  only  to  interrogate 

My  Leader,  it  had  brighter,  larger  grown. 


152  THE  DIVINE  COMEDY 

Then  on  each  side  of  it  appeared  to  me  22 

A  something  white,  I  knew  not  what ;  beneath 

Came  slowly  forth  another  whiteness  still. 
My  Master  uttered  not  a  word  until  25 

The  first  white  gleams  appeared  the  wings  they  were; 

Then,  when  he  clearly  knew  the  pilot,  called : 
**Bend  thou  thy  knees,  bend  thou  thy  knees !  it  is  28 

God 's  Angel !  Fold  thy  hands !   Henceforth  thou  seest 

Such  doers  of  the  holy  offices ! 
See  how  he  scorns  the  instruments  of  men,  81 

And  will  not  use  an  oar,  or  other  sail 

Than  his  own  wings  between  such  distant  shores ! 
See  how  he  holds  them  pointed  up  to  heaven,  34 

Beating  the  air  with  his  eternal  feathers, 

That  are  not  moulted  as  upon  the  earth ! ' ' 
Then  as  he  near  and  nearer  drew  to  us,  87 

The  winged  one  of  God  more  bright  appeared, 

So  that  my  eyes  no  longer  bore  the  sight, 
But  were  perforce  bent  down.    He  came  to  shore  *0 

With  vessel  of  such  swiftness  and  so  light 

The  waters  had  not  swallowed  it  at  all ; 
And  at  the  stern  the  heavenly  Pilot  stood  *8 

Like  one  whose  blessedness  is  writ  in  heaven; 

While  more  than  five  score  spirits  sat  within. 
In  exitu  Israel  de  Egypto  ^ 

They  were  together  singing  with  one  voice 

With  all  that  more  is  written  in  that  psalm ; 
And  then  he  made  the  sign  of  Holy  Cross,  ** 

Whereat  they  cast  themselves  upon  the  strand, 

And  he,  as  he  had  come,  was  swift  to  go. 
The  huddling  throng  remaining  in  that  place  *2 

Seemed  very  strange  to  it,  and  gazed  around 

Like  one  who  makes  essay  of  novel  things. 
The  sun  was  darting  now  on  every  side  W 


PURGATORIO,  II  153 

The  arrows  of  the  day,  and  with  their  glow 

Had  chased  the  Goat  from  the  mid-heaven 's  height, 
"When  the  new  people  lifted  up  their  brows  58 

To  us,  and  said :"  If  it  so  be  ye  know. 

Show  us  the  way  to  follow  to  the  Mount. ' ' 
And  Virgil  answered  them:  ''Perchance  ye  think  61 

That  we  have  had  experience  of  this  place ; 

But  we  are  pilgrims,  even  as  yourselves. 
We  came  but  now,  a  little  ere  ye  came,  64 

Another  way  that  was  so  rough  and  hard 

That  climbing  hence  will  be  but  play  to  us. ' ' 
The  souls  that  had  become  aware  of  me  67 

Because  I  breathed  and  so  was  living  still 

Grew  pallid  at  the  miracle ;  and  then, 
As  to  a  messenger  with  olive-branch  70 

Men  press  on  earth  to  hear  the  news  he  brings 

And  are  not  loath  to  tread  on  those  before, 
So  on  my  countenance  those  happy  souls  73 

Were  there  with  gaze  affixed,  each  one,  as  if 

This  journey  to  grow  fair  were  all  forgot. 
Among  them  I  saw  one  press  forward  so  76 

As  if  for  love  to  throw  his  arms  about  me, 

That  I  was  moved  to  do  the  like  to  him. 
0  shades !  how  empty,  save  in  show !    Three  times  79 

I  clasped  my  hands  behind  it,  and  three  times 

I  drew  them  empty  to  my  breast  again. 
My  color  showed  my  wonder,  I  believe,  ^2 

Because  the  shade  then  smiled  as  it  drew  back ; 

And  I  pressed  on,  as  if  to  follow  it. 
Gently  it  bade  me  pause,  and  so  I  knew  85 

Whose  form  it  was ;  and  I  besought  him  then 

That  he  would  stay  a  while  and  speak  with  me. 
He  answered  me :  "As  in  my  mortal  frame  88 

I  loved  you,  still  I  love  you,  freed  from  it. 


154  THE  DIVINE  COMEDY 

Therefore  I  stay;  but  thou,  why  joumeyest  thouT*' 
*  *  This  journey,  my  Casella,  I  have  made  ®1 

That  I  may  yet  another  time  return,  *  * 

I  said;  "but  who  has  robbed  thee  of  thy  time?*' 
And  he  to  me  :* 'No  one  has  done  me  wrong,  W 

Though  he  who  takes  both  whom  and  when  he  will 

Has  many  times  denied  me  passage  hither ; 
For  of  a  just  will  is  his  own  composed.  ^ 

For  three  months  now  in  truth  he  has  brought  o  'er 

With  perfect  peace  whoever  willed  to  come. 
So  I,  who  had  at  that  time  turned  my  way  "^^ 

To  that  sea-shore  where  Tiber's  flood  grows  salt, 

Benignantly  by  him  was  gathered  in. 
To  reach  that  mouth  his  wing  is  now  intent,  103 

Because  collecting  ever  there  are  they 

Whose  downward  way  leads  not  to  Acheron.'* 
And  I :  ' '  If  some  new  law  deprives  thee  not  106 

Of  memory  and  thy  voicing  of  love's  song 

Which  once  would  quiet  in  me  all  desires, 
Be  pleased  to  let  it  solace  yet  once  more  109 

My  soul,  which  leaving  not  its  outward  form, 

Has  hither  come  in  such  great  weariness.  *  * 
Love,  which  discourses  in  my  mind  with  me,  112 

Began  he  then  to  sing  so  sweetly,  that 

The  sweetness  of  it  ever  in  me  sounds. 
My  Master  and  myself  and  all  that  were  115 

About  him  there  seemed  so  content,  as  if 

Naught  else  were  in  the  mind  of  any  one. 
We  were  all  standing  fixedly  intent  118 

Upon  his  notes,  when  lo !  the  grave  old  man 

Crying:  **Ye  laggard  spirits,  what  is  this! 
What  negligence  ?    What  standing  still  is  this  ?  121 

Run  to  the  Mount  to  strip  you  of  the  slough, 

Which  lets  not  God  be  manifest  to  you!*' 


PURGATORIO,  III  155 

As  when  the  doves  are  feeding  in  a  flock  124 

And,  picking  up  the  grain  or  tares,  are  still 
And  make  no  showing  of  their  wonted  pride, 

If  anything  appear  and  cause  them  fright,  127 

They  suddenly  abandon  all  their  food 
Because  they  are  assailed  by  greater  care ; 

So  did  I  see  this  troop,  but  newly  come,  130 

Leaving  the  song,  and  going  toward  the  slope 
As  one  who  goes,  nor  knows  where  leads  his  way ; 

Nor  was  our  leaving  slower  than  was  theirs.  133 


CANTO  III 

Although  the  sudden  flight  had  scattered  so 
These  souls  about  the  plain,  and  turned  again 
Toward  the  Mount,  where  reason  is  our  spur, 

I  drew  the  nearer  to  my  true  companion ;  4 

And  how  should  I  have  sped  without  him,  or 
Who  would  have  led  me  upward  o'er  the  Mount? 

He  seemed  to  me  remorseful  for  himself;  7 

0  noble  conscience,  void  of  all  offence, 
How  bitter  is  the  sting  of  little  faults ! 

And  when  his  feet  no  longer  moved  in  haste  10 

That  robs  of  dignity  all  acts,  my  mind 
Which  was  restrained  before,  was  now  set  free 

To  follow  its  intent  with  eagerness;  13 

1  set  my  face  to  go  toward  the  hill. 

Which  rises  highest  heavenward  from  the  sea. 
The  sunlight,  flaming  ruddy  at  my  back,  16 

Was  broken  now  before  me  in  the  shape. 

In  which  I  caused  the  stopping  of  the  rays. 
I  turned  me  to  one  side  with  fear  lest  I  1® 

Had  been  abandoned,  when  I  saw  the  earth 


156  THE  DIVINE  COMEDY 

Was  darkened  there  before  myself  alone: 
And  he,  my  comfort,  turning  wholly  round,  22 

Began :  ' '  Why  dost  thou  still  distrust  ?  dost  thou 

Not  trust  that  I  am  with  thee,  and  thy  guide? 
It  is  already  evening  there  where  lies  25 

The  body  buried  in  which  I  cast  a  shadow ; 

For  Naples  holds  it,  from  Brundusium  brought. 
And  if  no  shadow  falls  before  me  now,  28 

Wonder  no  more  at  it  than  at  the  heavens. 

Whose  rays  are  not  impeded  each  by  each. 
To  suffer  torments  both  of  heat  and  cold  81 

Bodies  like  these  are  by  that  Power  ordained. 

Which  wills  not  that  its  ways  be  known  to  us; 
And  mad  is  he  who  hopes  our  reason  may  34 

E  'er  follow  after  through  infinity 

The  paths  One  Substance  in  Three  Persons  takes. 
Be  then  content,  mankind,  with  *  So  it  is ; '  37 

For  if  ye  had  been  able  to  see  all. 

There  were  no  need  that  Mary  should  give  birth ; 
And  ye  have  seen  how  fruitlessly  they  longed  ^ 

That  this  desire  might  be  gratified. 

Which  has  become  to  them  eternal  grief. 
I  speak  of  Aristotle  and  of  Plato  ^ 

And  many  more. ' '    And  then  he  ceased  to  speak, 

Remaining  troubled,  with  his  head  bowed  down. 
We  had  attained  meanwhile  the  mountain's  base;  ^ 

But  there  we  found  the  cliff  so  steep  to  scale 

That  all  in  vain  the  legs  would  there  be  nimble. 
'Twixt  Lerici  and  where  Turbia  lies,  *• 

The  most  deserted,  lonely  path  is  as 

An  easy,  open  stairway  unto  this. 
**Now  who  knows  on  which  hand  the  side  slopes  down,"  52 

Then  said  my  Master,  as  he  stayed  his  steps, 

**So  that  one  may  ascend,  though  he  lack  wings?*' 


PURGATORIO,  III  157 

And  while  he  was  still  there  with  eyes  cast  down  55 

And  pondering  the  way  within  his  mind, 

And  I  was  looking  up  about  the  rocks, 
On  the  left  hand  appeared  to  me  a  throng  58 

Of  souls  that  moved  their  feet  toward  us,  and  yet 

Seemed  not  to  move,  so  slowly  were  they  coming. 
** Master,"  I  said,  ''lift  up  thine  eyes  and  see  61 

On  this  side  some  one  who  may  give  us  counsel, 

If  thou  canst  not  now  find  it  of  thyself. '^ 
He  looked  at  them,  and  with  glad  mien  replied :  64 

' '  They  come  so  slowly,  let  us  go  to  them. 

And  may  thy  hope  be  strengthened,  my  sweet  son.'* 
While  yet  that  people  were  as  far  away,  67 

(After  we  took,  I  mean,  some  thousand  steps) 

As  could  be  reached  by  a  good  slinger's  throw, 
They  all  were  pressing  nearer  to  the  mass  70 

Of  that  hard,  lofty  cliff,  so  close  and  still 

As  one  who  walks  in  doubt,  and  stops  to  look. 
' '  0  ye,  whose  end  was  good, ' '  Virgil  began,  73 

* '  Spirits  elect,  now  tell  us  by  that  peace, 

Which  I  believe  awaits  each  one  of  you. 
Where  is  it  that  the  moiintain  falls  away,  76 

So  that  the  going  up  is  possible? 

For  who  knows  most  dislikes  most  to  lose  time. ' ' 
As  sheep  that  come  forth  from  the  fold  by  ones,  79 

By  twos,  by  threes,  while  all  the  others  stand. 

Timidly  holding  eye  and  nose  to  earth. 
And  what  the  first  one  does  the  others  do,  82 

Huddling  so  close  to  her,  if  she  but  stop, 

Silly  and  quiet,  and  they  know  not  why; 
So  saw  I  move,  as  if  to  come  to  us,  85 

The  head  of  that  blest  flock,  in  countenance 

Modest  of  mien,  in  motion  dignified. 
When  those  who  were  in  front  saw  that  the  light  ^8 


158  THE  DIVINE  COMEDY 

Was  broken  on  the  ground  at  my  right  side 

So  that  my  shadow  fell  toward  the  rock, 
They  stopped  and  drew  themselves  a  little  back ;  »l 

And  all  the  others  that  came  after  them, 

Not  knowing  why,  yet  did  the  same  as  they. 
*  *  Before  your  question,  I  make  known  to  you  W 

This  is  a  human  body  that  ye  see, 

By  which  the  sun 's  light  on  the  ground  is  cleft. 
I  pray  you,  marvel  not ;  believe  that  not  ^7 

Without  a  power  that  comes  down  from  heaven 

He  now  is  seeking  to  surmount  this  wall.*' 
So  spoke  my  Master ;  and  that  worthy  band  100 

Replied :  *  *  Turn  then ;  before  us  enter  in, ' '         [signs. 

And  with  the  backs  of  hands  stretched  forth  made 
And  one  of  them  began :  ' '  Whoe  'er  thou  art,  103 

Do  thou,  who  goest  onward,  turn  thy  face. 

To  note  if  thou  didst  ever  see  me  yonder.'* 
I  turned,  and  looked  upon  him  fixedly ;  106 

Fair-haired  he  was,  and  fair  to  look  upon. 

But  for  one  eyebrow  that  a  blow  had  cleft. 
When  I  with  due  humility  disclaimed  10J> 

That  I  had  ever  seen  him,  * '  Look, ' '  said  he, 

And  pointed  to  a  wound  above  his  breast. 
Then  he  said  smiling :  *  *  I  am  Manfred,  son  112 

Of  Empress  Constance  *  son ;  wherefore,  I  pray, 

Whenever  thou  returnest  to  the  world. 
Go  thou  to  my  fair  daughter,  who  brought  forth  118 

The  glory  of  Sicily  and  Aragon, 

Tell  her  the  truth,  despite  what  others  say. 
After  my  body  was  twice  broken  in  118 

By  deadly  thrusts,  I  gave  myself  in  tears 

Unto  that  One  who  gladly  pardons  us. 
My  sins  were  horrible,  but  infinite  121 

Is  Goodness,  whose  great  arms  outstretched  receive 


PURGATORIO,  IV  159 

Each  one  of  those  who  turn  to  it  again. 

If  he  whom  Clement  sent  to  hunt  me  down,  124 

The  Pastor  of  Cosenza,  had  but  known 
How  to  read  then  the  page  of  God  aright, 

My  body's  bones  would  still  be  lying  there  127 

Near  by  the  head  of  Benevento  's  bridge. 
Within  the  keeping  of  the  heavy  cairn. 

Now  the  rain  bathes  and  the  wind  drives  them  forth      130 
From  out  the  realm  hard  by  the  Verde's  banks, 
"Whither  he  had  them  borne  with  tapers  quenched. 

But  by  their  curse  a  man  is  not  so  lost  133 

That  love  eternal  cannot  come  again. 
If  only  hope  have  still  the  slightest  green. 

In  truth  whoe'er  in  contumacy  dies  136 

Of  Holy  Church,  though  he  at  last  repent, 
Must  stay  outside  these  bounds  full  thirty-fold 

The  measure  of  the  time  which  he  had  passed  139 

In  his  presumption,  if  good  prayers  work  not 
The  shortening  of  this  decreed  delay. 

See  how  hereafter  thou  canst  make  me  happy,  142 

Wouldst  thou  to  my  good  Constance  both  reveal 
How  thou  hast  seen  me,  and  too  this  decree ; 

Great  is  the  help  that  comes  through  those  on  earth.  '*       145 


CANTO  IV 

Whenever  through  delights  or  pains  received 
By  some  one  faculty  of  ours  the  soul 
Collects  itself  for  that  one  thoroughly. 

It  seems  to  give  no  heed  to  other  power ; 
And  this,  against  that  error  which  believes 
One  soul  above  another  burns  in  us. 

And  therefore,  when  a  thing  is  heard  or  seen, 


160  THE  DIVINE  COMEDY 

Which  keeps  the  soul  turned  to  it  mightily, 

Time  passes,  and  the  soul  has  paid  no  heed. 
One  power  is  it,  that  is  listening,  10 

Another,  that  which  keeps  the  soul  entire ; 

The  latter,  as  it  were,  fast  bound,  the  former  loose. 
Of  that  I  had  a  true  experience,  13 

Hearing  that  spirit's  words,  and  marveling. 

For  fifty  full  degrees  the  sun  had  climbed 
And  I  had  not  become  aware  of  it,  16 

"When  we  had  come  to  where  those  souls  cried  out 

As  with  one  voice :  ' '  Behold  here  what  ye  asked. '  * 
The  countryman,  when  grapes  are  turning  brown,  1^ 

With  but  a  little  forkful  of  his  thorns 

Will  often  cram  a  larger  opening 
Than  was  the  gap,  through  which  we  mounted  up,  22 

My  Leader  and  I  after  him,  alone, 

When  once  the  troop  had  taken  leave  of  us. 
San  Leo  can  be  reached,  and  one  goes  down  25 

To  Noli,  or  yet  scales  Bismantova 

With  only  feet,  but  here  one  needs  to  fly. 
I  mean  with  the  swift  wings  and  with  the  feathers  28 

Of  great  desire  behind  that  leadership. 

Which  gave  me  hope,  and  made  a  light  for  me. 
We  were  still  climbing  through  the  rocky  cleft  81 

With  on  each  side  a  wall  that  hemmed  us  in. 

And  ground  beneath  that  called  for  feet  and  hands, 
And  had  already  reached  the  topmost  edge  W 

Of  this  high  bank  out  on  the  open  slope ; 

*'My  Master,"  said  I,  ''what  way  shall  we  take!*' 
And  he  to  me :  "No  step  of  thine  be  downward  1  87 

But  up  the  Mount  behind  me  win  thy  way, 

Till  some  wise  escort  shall  appear  to  us. " 
The  lofty  summit  was  above  our  sight,  *0 

And  here  the  mountain's  flank  rose  steeper  far 


PURGATORIO,  IV  161 

Than  from  a  centre  the  mid-quadrant  line. 
Weary  was  I  when  I  began  to  say :  43 

*  *  0  my  sweet  Father,  turn  thee  and  regard 

How  I  remain  alone,  if  thou  stay  not!" 
*'My  son,"  he  answered,  ''draw  thyself  up  here,"  46 

And  pointed  out  a  little  higher  up 

A  ledge,  that  here  encircled  all  the  hill. 
The  words  he  uttered  then  so  spurred  me  on  49 

To  force  myself,  that  creeping  after  him 

I  had  this  girdle  underneath  my  feet. 
And  there  we  stopped,  and  both  of  us  sat  down,  52 

Turned  to  the  east,  whence  we  had  made  the  ascent ; 

For  looking  back  is  wont  to  give  us  cheer. 
And  first  I  turned  my  eyes  to  the  low  shores ;  55 

Then  raised  them  to  the  sun,  and  wondered  much 

That  we  were  struck  by  it  upon  the  left. 
The  Poet  noted  well  how  I  stood  there  58 

Astonished  at  the  chariot  of  the  sun. 

Passing  its  way  between  us  and  the  north. 
Wherefore  he  said :  ' '  If  with  the  mirror  yonder,  61 

Which  sends  its  light  upward  and  downward  both, 

Castor  and  Pollux  were  in  company. 
Then  thou  wouldst  see  the  ruddy  Zodiac  ^ 

Revolving  closer  to  the  Bears,  unless 

It  had  departed  from  its  ancient  path. 
If  thou  wouldst  fain  conceive  how  this  must  be,  ^7 

With  thoughts  collected  picture  Zion  placed 

So  with  this  mountain  on  the  earth,  that  both 
Have  one  horizon,  and  their  hemispheres  70 

Diverse,  so  that  the  road  which  Phaethon 

To  his  destruction  knew  not  how  to  drive. 
Must  needs  pass  by  the  mountain  on  one  side,  73 

And  that  one  on  the  other,  thou  shalt  find, 

If  so  thy  intellect  is  clear  and  heeds." 


162  THE  DIVINE  COMEDY 

*  *  Assuredly,  my  Master,  never  yet,  *  *  ^^ 

Said  I,  * '  have  I  discerned  so  well  as  now, 

There  where  my  power  of  mind  seemed  fallen  short. 
That  the  mid-circle  of  the  heavenly  motion,  79 

Called  the  Equator  in  a  certain  science 

And  ever  biding  'twixt  the  sun  and  winter. 
Is,  as  thou  reasonest,  as  far  from  here  82 

Towards  the  north,  as  were  the  Hebrews  wont 

To  see  it  in  the  region  of  the  heat. 
But  if  it  please  thee,  I  would  gladly  learn  85 

How  far  we  have  to  go,  because  the  hill 

Rises  still  higher  than  my  eyes  can  reach.  * ' 
And  he  replied  to  me :  * '  Such  is  this  Mount,  88 

That  it  is  ever  hard  to  climb  below, 

And  pains  the  less,  the  higher  one  ascends. 
Therefore,  as  soon  as  it  shall  seem  to  thee  W 

So  pleasant,  that  it  is  as  slight  a  task 

To  scale  it,  as  the  floating  down  a  stream. 
Then  shalt  thou  be  at  this  path's  end;  and  there  ^^ 

Expect  to  find  repose  for  weariness. 

No  more  I  answer;  this  I  know  for  true.'* 
And  when  he  had  ceased  speaking,  lo,  a  voice  ^^ 

Near  by  us  sounded :  * '  It  may  be  that  thou. 

To  sit  thee  down  beforehand,  shalt  have  need/' 
At  sound  of  it  we  each  of  us  turned  round,  1^ 

And  saw  upon  the  left  a  massive  stone. 

Which  neither  he  nor  I  perceived  before. 
And  when  we  went  to  it,  persons  were  there  ^^ 

Reposing  in  the  shade  behind  the  rock, 

As  one  will  indolently  settle  down. 
And  one  of  them,  who  seemed  so  weary  there,  1^6 

Was  seated  on  the  ground,  and  clasped  his  knees, 

Holding  his  face  between  them  buried  low. 

*  *  0  sweet  my  lord, ' '  said  I,  *  *  now  cast  thine  eye  ^^ 


PURGATORIO,  IV  163 

On  him  who  shows  himself  more  indolent 
Than  if  Sloth  were  his  very  sister  born/' 

Then  turned  he  to  us,  and  as  he  gave  heed,  112 

Moving  his  look  only  along  his  thigh. 
He  said :  * '  Now  go  thou  up,  for  thou  art  valiant. ' ' 

I  knew  then  who  he  was;  and  weariness,  115 

"Which  still  was  quickening  somewhat  my  breath, 
Prevented  not  my  going  up  to  him. 

And  when  I  reached  him,  scarcely  raised  he  up  US 

His  head,  saying :  * '  Hast  truly  seen  the  sun 
At  thy  left  shoulder  drive  his  chariot?" 

His  lazy  acts  and  the  few  words  he  used  121 

First  moved  my  lips  somewhat  to  smile,  and  then, 
''Belacqua,"  I  began,  ''henceforth  I  grieve 

For  thee  no  more ;  but  tell  me  why  thou  art  124 

Seated  just  here;  awaitest  thou  a  guide. 
Or  hast  thou  but  resumed  thy  wonted  ways  ? ' ' 

And  he:  ''Brother,  of  what  good  to  go  up?  127 

The  Winged  One  of  God  beside  the  gate 
Would  not  let  me  go  on  to  torments  then. 

Outside  of  it  the  heavens  first  must  turn  130 

About  me  as  long  time  as  was  my  life, 
Because  I  sighed  not  well  till  the  end  of  it. 

If  prayers  come  not  beforehand  to  my  aid,  133 

Sprung  from  a  heart  that  still  survives  in  grace ; 
What  profits  other  prayer,  unheard  in  heaven  ? ' ' 

Already  was  the  Poet  mounting  up  136 

Before  me,  saying :  ' '  Come  !  for  now  thou  seest 
The  sun  meridian  high ;  and  from  the  bank 

Upon  Morocco  falls  the  foot  of  night. ' '  139 


164  THE  DIVINE  COMEDY 


CANTO  V 

I  HAD  already  parted  from  those  shades 

And  followed  in  the  footsteps  of  my  guide, 

When,  pointing  with  his  finger,  one  cried  out 
Behind  me:  ''See,  the  light  seems  not  to  shine  * 

Upon  the  left  of  that  one  lower  down. 

And  he  appears  to  act  as  if  alive. ' ' 
On  hearing  these  words  said  I  turned  my  eyes,  ^ 

And  saw  them  looking,  wondering,  at  me. 

At  me  alone,  and  at  the  broken  light. 
**Why  is  thy  spirit  so  entangled,"  said  10 

My  Master,  ''that  thou  slackenest  thy  pace? 

Or  how  concerns  thee  what  is  whispered  here  ? 
Follow  thou  me,  and  let  the  people  talk;  13 

Stand  like  a  tower  firm,  that  never  shakes 

Its  summit  at  the  blowing  of  the  winds. 
For  he  e'er  moves  his  mark  still  further  off,  W 

Within  whom  thought  is  springing  after  thought, 

Because  the  one  makes  less  the  other's  power." 
What  could  I  say  in  answer  but  ' '  I  come  "  ?  1^ 

And  so  I  said,  with  face  of  such  a  hue 

As  sometimes  makes  one  merit  pardoning. 
Meanwhile  across  the  mountain-side  there  came  ^ 

People  in  front  of  us  a  little  space, 

Chanting  the  Miserere  verse  by  verse. 
When  they  perceived  my  body  gave  no  place  85 

To  passing  of  the  rays,  they  changed  their  song 

Into  an  ' '  Oh, ' '  both  long  drawn  out  and  hoarse. 
And  two  of  them  in  form  of  messengers  28 

Ran  forth  to  meet  us,  and  then  asked  of  us : 

"Make  us  acquainted,  pray,  with  your  condition." 
"Ye  may  go  back,"  my  Master  said  to  them,  81 


PURGATORIO,  Y  165 

**And  thus  report  to  those  who  bade  you  come, 

That  this  man 's  body  is  of  very  flesh. 
If,  as  I  deem,  they  stopped  because  they  saw  8* 

His  shadow,  they  are  answered ;  let  them  pay 

Him  honor,  and  he  may  be  dear  to  them/' 
Enkindled  vapors  I  have  never  seen  37 

At  early  night  so  swift  to  cleave  the  sky. 

Or  clouds  in  August  when  the  sun  goes  down. 
That  they  returned  not  upward  in  less  time ;  40 

And,  joined  by  the  others  there,  wheeled  round  to  us 

Like  a  troop  running  forward  without  check. 
^*This  folk,  that  presses  to  us  now,  is  large,  43 

And  come  to  beg  thine  aid, ' '  the  poet  said ; 

' '  But  still  go  on,  and  listen  as  thou  goest. ' ' 
'*0  soul,  that  art  upon  thy  way  to  joy  46 

With  members  that  thou  hadst  when  thou  wast  born," 

They  came  on,  crying,  ' '  stay  thy  steps  a  while. 
Look,  if  thou  ever  sawest  one  of  us,  49 

So  that  thou  mayst  take  yonder  news  of  him. 

Oh,  why  dost  thou  go  on  ?    Oh,  why  not  stay  ? 
We  all  had  met  our  de^th  by  violence,  52 

And  till  the  latest  hour  were  in  our  sins ; 

Then  light  from  heaven  shone  upon  us  so. 
That,  penitent  and  pardoning,  we  came  ^^ 

Forth  from  that  life  at  peace  with  God;  so  that 

He  fills  our  hearts  with  longing  for  His  sight. ' ' 
^  *  Although  I  gaze  upon  your  faces,  none  58 

I  recognize, ' '  said  I ;  * '  but  if  I  may 

Please  you  in  aught  I  can,  spirits  well-bom. 
Then  speak,  and  I  will  do  it  by  that  peace,  61 

Which,  following  the  steps  of  such  a  guide 

Makes  me  go  searching  it  from  world  to  world. ' ' 
And  one  began :  ' '  Each  one  of  us  has  trust  6* 

In  thy  good  offices  without  thine  oath. 


166  THE  DIVINE  COMEDY 

If  lack  of  power  cut  not  off  the  will. 
So  I,  who  speak  alone  before  the  rest,  67 

"Would  pray  thee,  if  thou  e  'er  shalt  see  the  land 

That  'twixt  Romagna  lies  and  that  of  Charles, 
That  thou  in  Fano  courteously  beseech  70 

That  their  good  prayers  be  offered  up  for  me, 

That  I  may  purge  away  my  heavy  sins. 
There  I  was  born;  but  the  deep  wounds  from  which      73 

Came  forth  the  blood,  in  which  I  had  my  seat, 

Were  dealt  me  embosomed  with  the  Antenors, 
Amidst  whom  I  believed  myself  more  sure.  76 

That  one  of  Este  had  it  done,  who  raged 

Against  me  far  beyond  what  justice  willed. 
If  only  toward  La  Mira,  when  I  was  79 

Surprised  at  Oriaco,  I  had  fled, 

I  should  be  yonder  still  with  those  who  breathe. 
I  ran  to  the  marshes,  and  the  reeds  and  mire  82 

So  hindered  me,  I  fell ;  and  then  I  saw 

A  pool  made  from  my  veins  upon  the  ground. ' ' 
Then  said  another:  **As  I  pray  thou  mayst  85 

Have  that  desire  which  draws  thee  to  the  Mount, 

Do  thou  with  kindly  pity  aid  in  mine. 
I  was  of  Montef eltro,  am  Buonconte ;  88 

Nor  Joan,  nor  any  other,  cares  for  me ; 

Therefore  I  go  with  these  of  downcast  brow.** 
And  I  to  him:  **What  was  the  force  or  chance  W 

Led  thee  so  far  from  Campaldino's  field, 

That  men  have  never  known  thy  burial-place!** 
*  *  Oh, ' '  answered  he,  * '  at  Casentino  's  foot  •* 

A  stream,  the  Archiano,  crosses,  born 

In  the  Apennine  above  the  Hermitage. 
To  that  place  where  its  name  grows  void,  I  had  ^ 

Made  my  way  on,  deep -wounded  in  the  throat, 

Fleeing  on  foot  and  bloodying  the  plain. 


PURGATORIO,  V  167 

There  I  could  see  no  longer,  and  my  speech  100 

Ended  with  Mary 's  name ;  and  there  I  fell. 
My  flesh  alone  remained.    I  speak  the  truth ; 

Among  the  living  tell  it  thus  again :  103 

God's  Angel  seized  me,  and  the  one  from  Hell 
Cried :  '  Thou  of  Heaven,  why  dost  thou  rob  me  so  ? 

Thou  bearest  hence  this  man's  immortal  part;  106 

One  petty  tear  is  taking  him  from  me ; 
But  I  will  deal  with  the  other  otherwise.' 

Thou  knowest  well  how  in  the  air  collects  109 

That  humid  vapor,  which  to  water  turns. 
Whene'er  it  mounts  where  cold  envelops  it. 

That  evil  will,  that  seeks  alone  the  ill,  112 

He  joined  to  thought,  and  moved  the  mist  and  wind 
By  power  that  his  nature  gave  to  him ; 

As  day  was  spent,  he  overspread  the  vale  115 

From  Pratomagno  to  the  mountain  chain 
"With  clouds,  and  made  the  sky  above  so  dense. 

The  pregnant  air  was  turned  to  water ;  then  US 

The  rain  came  down;  the  water-courses  took 
That  part  of  it  which  earth  could  not  endure ; 

And  as  it  came  together  in  great  streams,  121 

Toward  the  royal  river  it  rushed  on 
So  swiftly,  there  was  nothing  held  it  back. 

My  body  cold  as  ice,  near  by  its  mouth  124 

The  raging  Archiano  found,  and  thrust 
Into  the  Amo ;  loosed  my  bosom 's  cross. 

That  with  my  arms  I  made  when  pain  o  'ercame  me ;         127 
Along  its  banks  and  bed  it  rolled  me,  till 
It  covered  me,  and  girt  me  with  its  spoil. ' ' 

*'Pray,  when  thou  art  returned  unto  the  world,  130 

And  art  from  thy  long  journey  rested,  then," 
The  third  soul  followed  on  the  second's  words, 

*  *  Think  thou  of  Pia,  whom  Siena  made,  133 


168  THE  DIVINE  COMEDY 

And  whom  Maremma  unmade,  as  he  knows 
Who  with  the  gem  set  in  the  ring  took  me 
Before  that  day  to  be  his  wedded  wife. ' '  136 


CANTO  VI 

As  when  the  game  of  dice  is  broken  up, 

He  who  has  lost  remains  behind  and  grieves, 
Recalling  all  the  throws,  and  sadly  learns. 

The  other  moves  away  with  all  the  throng,  * 

This  one  in  front,  and  that  one  seizing  him 
Behind,  and  this  one  brings  himself  to  mind 

Beside  him,  he  stays  not,  yet  notes  it  all ;  7 

And  he  to  whom  he  stretches  out  his  hand 
Stops  crowding,  and  he  so  escapes  the  press: 

Such  I  was  in  that  thronging  multitude,  10 

As  I  turned  here  and  there  my  face  to  them, 
And  by  my  promising  made  my  escape. 

Here  was  the  Aretine,  who  by  the  arms  18 

Of  savage  Ghin  di  Tacco  met  his  death; 
And  he  who  running  in  pursuit  was  drowned ; 

And  here  Novello's  Federigo  prayed  I^ 

With  hands  outstretched,  and  he  of  Pisa,  who 
Made  good  Marzucco  seem  so  strong  of  heart. 

I  saw  Count  Orso ;  and  the  soul  that  hate  ^^ 

And  envy  parted  from  its  body,  not, 
Men  said,  for  any  sin  itself  had  done, 

Pierre  de  la  Brosse  's ;  and  let  her  take  care,  ^ 

The  Lady  of  Brabant,  while  still  she  lives, 
That  she  come  not  for  that  to  flock  still  worse. 

When  I  was  free  again  from  all  these  shades,  25 

Who  only  pray  that  others  pray  for  them, 
That  they  the  sooner  come  to  saintliness, 


PURGATORIO,  VI  169 

Thus  I  began :  * '  To  me  it  seems  that  thou,  28 

My  Light,  expressly  in  one  place  deniest. 

That  prayer  may  cause  decree  of  heaven  to  bend; 
And  yet  these  people  all  do  pray  for  this.  31 

Or  might  it  be,  then,  that  their  hope  is  vain? 

Or  are  thy  words  not  duly  clear  to  me  ? " 
And  he  to  me :  ' '  Both  is  my  writing  clear,  34 

And,  too,  the  hope  of  these  is  not  deceived, 

If  it  be  well  examined  with  sound  mind. 
The  peak  of  justice  bends  not  to  the  vale,  37 

Because  Love's  fire  may  in  an  instant  work 

The  satisfaction  due  from  each  one  here ; 
And  there,  where  I  affirmed  this,  the  defect  ^^ 

Was  not  by  praying  remedied ;  because 

That  was,  forsooth,  a  prayer  disjoined  from  God. 
But  upon  matters  of  such  lofty  doubt  43 

Fix  not  thy  mind,  unless  she  bid  thee  to. 

Who  shall  be  light  'twixt  truth  and  intellect. 
I  know  not  if  thou  understand ;  I  speak  46 

Of  Beatrice,  whom  on  this  mountain's  top 

Thou  shalt  see  smiling  in  her  happiness." 
And  I :  "  My  Lord,  let  us  make  greater  haste,  49 

For  now  I  grow  not  weary  as  before ; 

And  see,  the  slope  is  casting  shadow  now." 
*'We  shall  go  forward  with  this  day  as  far,"  52 

He  answered  me,  "as  shall  be  in  our  power. 

But  otherwise  the  fact  is  than  thou  deemest; 
Before  thou  art  up  there,  he  shall  return,  55 

Who  now  is  hidden  by  the  hillside  so 

That  thou  no  longer  dost  obstruct  his  rays. 
But  yonder  see  a  soul,  who  all  apart  58 

Is  stationed  as  he  casts  his  looks  on  us ; 

He  will  point  out  to  us  the  quickest  way." 
We  came  to  him.    0  Lombard  soul,  how  proud  ^^ 


170  THE  DIVINE  COMEDY 

And  all  disdainful  wert  thou,  standing  there! 

How  grave  and  slow  wert  thou  to  move  thine  eyes ! 
And  saying  nothing  to  us,  suffered  us  W 

To  go  our  way,  and  only  fixed  his  gaze 

Upon  us  as  a  couching  lion  would. 
But  Virgil,  drawing  near  to  him,  besought  ^'^ 

That  he  might  show  to  us  the  best  ascent; 

And  he  made  no  reply  to  his  request, 
But  of  our  country  and  our  life  instead  70 

He  questioned  us.    The  gentle  Leader  then: 

**  Mantua — "  and  the  shade,  all  in  itself  recluse, 
Sprang  toward  him  from  the  place  where  it  had  been,      73 

Saying:  ''0  Mantuan,  I  am  Sordello, 

Of  thine  own  land."    And  they  embraced  each  other. 
0  servile  Italy !  hostel  of  grief !  76 

Ship  without  pilot  in  great  tempest,  not 

Mistress  of  provinces,  but  brothel-house! 
How  ready  was  that  gentle  soul  to  give  79 

At  the  sweet  mention  of  his  city's  name 

A  joyous  welcome  to  its  citizen ! 
But  now  thy  living  men  cannot  exist  82 

"Without  a  war,  and  each  man  gnaws  his  neighbor, 

Of  those  whom  one  wall  and  one  moat  shut  in. 
Search,  wretched  one,  thy  borders  by  the  sea, 

And  then  look  in  thy  bosom,  if  there  be 

Within  thee  any  part  enjoying  peace. 
What  good  comes,  if  Justinian  readjust 

Thy  bridle,  and  thy  saddle  be  not  filled  t 

If  that  had  never  been,  thy  shame  were  less. 
Ah,  folk  whose  duty  is  to  be  devout  •! 

And  let  the  saddle  be  the  seat  of  Caesar, 

If  ye  know  well  what  God  appoints  for  you, 
Behold  how  fell  this  wild  beast  has  become  •* 

For  lacking  the  correction  of  the  spurs, 


85 


88 


PUEGATORIO,  VI  171 

Since  you  upon  the  bridle  have  laid  hand ! 
O  German  Albert,  who  abandonest  ^7 

Her,  who  has  now  grown  savage  and  untamed. 

And  oughtest  to  bestride  her  saddle  bows, 
May  righteous  judgment,  falling  from  the  stars,  100 

Come  on  thy  blood,  and  be  so  new  and  plain, 

That  thy  successor  shall  have  fear  of  it; 
Because  ye  two,  thy  father  and  thyself,  103 

Have  been  held  back  by  greed  of  yonder  things 

Until  the  empire's  garden  is  a  waste. 
Come  see  the  Montagues  and  Capulets,  106 

The  Filippeschi  and  Monaldi,  thou 

Unheeding  one,  those  sad  and  these  in  dread. 
Come,  cruel  one,  and  see  affliction  press  109 

Thine  own  nobility,  and  cure  their  wrongs; 

And  thou  shalt  see  how  safe  is  Santafior. 
Come  see  how  thine  own  Rome  is  left  in  tears,  112 

Widowed,  alone,  and  crying  day  and  night: 

*  *  My  Caesar,  why  not  keep  me  company  ? ' ' 
Come  see  the  people,  how  they  love  each  other ;  115 

And  if  no  pity  for  us  move  thee,  come 

And  know  what  is  the  shame  of  thine  own  fame. 
If  it  be  granted  me,  0  Most  High  Jove,  118 

"Who  once  wert  crucified  for  us  on  earth. 

Are  thy  just  eyes  turned  otherwheres  away? 
Or  is  it  preparation  in  the  abyss  121 

Of  thine  own  counsel  that  thou  mak'st  for  some 

Far  good,  completely  hidden  from  our  ken? 
For  all  the  towns  of  Italy  are  full  124 

Of  tyrants,  and  each  upstart  partisan, 

Although  a  churl,  is  a  Marcellus  now. 
My  Florence,  thou  mayst  well  be  satisfied  127 

With  this  digression,  that  concerns  thee  not. 

Thanks  to  thy  people,  reasoning  so  well. 


172  THE  DIVINE  COMEDY 

Many  have  justice  in  their  hearts,  and  shoot  ^^^ 

But  slowly,  not  to  wield  the  bow  unwisely; 

Thy  people  have  it  ever  at  their  lips. 
Many  refuse  to  bear  the  common  charge ;  133 

Thy  people  answer  in  their  eagerness 

Without  request,  and  cry:  **We  load  ourselves." 
Now  be  thou  happy,  for  thou  hast  good  ground,  136 

Thou  wealthy,  thou  at  peace,  thou  who  art  wise. 

If  I  speak  truth,  the  facts  conceal  it  not. 
Athens  and  Lacedemon,  that  had  framed  139 

The  ancient  laws  and  were  so  civilized. 

Gave  little  sign  of  living  well,  compared 
With  thee,  who  makest  thy  provisioning  1*2 

So  subtle,  that  to  mid-November  fails 

To  reach  what  thou  hadst  in  October  spun. 
How  often,  in  the  time  that  thou  recall'st,  1**^ 

Thy  law,  thy  coins,  titles  and  practices 

Hast  thou  transformed,  and  made  thy  members  new ! 
If  thou  remember  well  and  see  the  light,  1*^ 

Thou  wilt  seem  to  thyself  like  some  sick  one, 

Who  on  the  feathers  cannot  come  to  rest, 
And  by  her  tossing  seeks  relief  from  pain.  1^1 


CANTO  VII 

The  salutations  dignified  and  glad 

Had  been  repeated  three  and  four  times  when 
Sordello,  drawing  back,  asked:  ''Who  are  yeV 

''Before  those  souls  had  turned  unto  this  Mount, 
Who  were  deemed  worthy  to  ascend  to  God, 
My  bones  were  buried  by  Octavian. 

I  am  Virgil ;  and  for  no  other  sin 
Did  I  lose  Heaven,  than  for  not  having  faith." 


PURGATORIO,  VII  173 

Thus  answered  him  my  Leader.    As  a  man 

"Who  suddenly  before  him  sees  a  thing  10 

At  which  he  wonders,  and  believes  and  then 
Believes  not,  with  "It  is,"  "No,  it  is  not;" 

Such  he  appeared,  and  then  bent  down  his  brow,  13 

And,  turning  to  him  in  humility. 
Embraced  him  where  the  inferior  lays  hold. 

"0  glory  of  the  Latins,"  said  he  then,  16 

"Through  whom  our  language  showed  what  were  its 
Eternal  Honor  of  my  birth-place,  thou,  [powers, 

What  merit  or  what  grace  shows  thee  to  me  ?  1^ 

If  I  am  counted  fit  to  hear  thy  words, 
Tell  me,  I  pray  thee,  comest  thou  from  Hell, 

And  from  what  cloister ? "    "I  have  come, ' '  said  he,  22 

"Through  all  the  circles  of  the  woful  realm. 
A  power  of  Heaven  moved  me ;  with  it  I  come. 

Not  what  I  did,  but  what  I  did  not,  made  25 

Me  lose  the  sight  of  that  high  Sun,  whom  thou 
Desirest,  but  whom  I  learned  late  to  know. 

There  is  a  place  down  there,  not  sad  with  pains  28 

But  only  with  its  gloom,  where  the  laments 
Have  not  the  sound  of  wailings,  but  of  sighs. 

There  I  abide  with  little  innocents  31 

Who  have  been  bitten  by  the  teeth  of  Death 
Before  they  were  exempt  from  human  sin ; 

There  I  abide  with  those,  who  did  not  wear  34 

The  holy  virtues  three,  but  without  vice 
Have  known  the  others  and  have  followed  them. 

But  if  thou  know'st  and  canst,  give  us  some  sign,  37 

By  which  we  may  the  sooner  come  up  there 
Where  Purgatory  has  its  right  beginning." 

He  answered :  "  No  fixed  place  is  set  for  us ;  *0 

I  may  go  upward  and  around;  as  far 
As  I  am  able  I  will  be  thy  guide. 


174  THE  DIVINE  COMEDY 

But  see  already  how  the  day  declines,  *3 

And  'tis  not  possible  to  mount  by  night ; 

'Twere  well  to  think  of  some  fair  resting-place. 
Some  souls  are  here  upon  our  right,  apart;  ^ 

If  thou  permit  me,  I  will  lead  thee  there, 

And  thou  shalt  know  them,  not  without  delight.  *  * 
**How  can  this  be?''  was  answered;  **he  who  would         *^ 

Ascend  by  night,  would  he  be  hindered  then 

By  others?  or  could  not  for  lack  of  power?" 
And  with  his  finger  good  Sordello  marked  52 

Upon  the  ground,  and  said :  * '  Only  this  line 

Thou  couldst  not  pass,  when  once  the  sun  is  gone ; 
For  naught  except  the  darkness  of  the  night  ^5 

Gives  hindrance  to  thy  going  up,  but  that 

With  impotence  to  act  hampers  the  will. 
One  may,  indeed,  turn  downward  in  the  night  58 

And  walk  around  the  hillside,  wandering. 

While  the  horizon  holds  the  day  shut  out." 
And  as  if  marveling,  my  Leader  said:  *^ 

* '  Then  lead  us  to  yon  place,  where  thou  dost  say 

That  we  may  have  delight  in  tarrying. ' ' 
But  little  distance  had  we  gone  from  there,  •* 

When  I  perceived  the  mountain  hollowed  out, 

As  here  on  earth  the  valleys  hollow  them. 
"We  will  go  yonder  where  the  mountain-side  ^^ 

Makes  of  itself  a  bosom,"  said  the  shade, 

**And  there  await  the  coming  of  the  day." 
Now  steep,  now  level,  was  a  winding  path  ^^ 

Which  led  us  to  a  place  beside  the  dell, 

Where  dies  away  the  border  more  than  half. 
Gold  and  fine  silver,  cochineal,  pearl-white,  78 

The  clear  and  bright  blue  wood  of  India, 

Fresh  emerald  at  the  moment  when  it  breaks. 
Beside  the  grass  and  flowers  set  within  7* 


PURGATORIO,  VII  175 

That  vale,  would  be  as  much  excelled  in  hue, 

As  is  the  less  excelled  by  what  is  greater. 
And  Nature  had  not  only  painted  there,  »   '^^ 

But  had  the  sweetness  of  a  thousand  scents 

Blended  in  one,  unknown,  unseparate. 
And  seated  on  the  green  and  on  the  flowers  82 

Were  souls  that  sang  Salve,  Begina,  there, 

"Who  for  the  valley  were  not  seen  without. 
*' Before  the  little  sun  sink  to  its  nest,"  85 

Began  the  Mantuan,  who  had  led  us  thither, 

"Desire  me  not  to  guide  you  among  these; 
Because  ye  can  from  this  ledge  better  far  88 

Make  out  the  faces  and  the  acts  of  all 

Than  if  ye  at  their  level  were  received. 
He  yonder,  who  sits  highest  and  appears  ^1 

To  have  neglected  what  he  should  have  done, 

And  who  moves  not  his  mouth  to  the  others '  songs, 
Was  Emperor  Eudolph,  in  whose  power  it  was  ^4 

To  heal  the  wounds  that  have  slain  Italy, 

So  that  her  help  is  late  at  other  hands. 
The  other,  who  appears  to  comfort  him,  ^7 

Ruled  where  the  waters  spring,  which  Moldau  bears 

To  Elbe  down,  and  Elbe  to  the  sea. 
His  name  was  Ottacar ;  in  swaddling-clothes  100 

He  was  far  better  than  his  bearded  son. 

King  Wenceslaus,  who  feeds  on  lust  and  sloth. 
And  that  small-nosed  man,  who  takes  counsel  there         1^3 

So  closely  with  that  one  of  kindly  look. 

Died  fleeing  and  disflowering  the  lily; 
See  how  he  beats  his  breast.    Behold  the  other,  106 

Who  for  his  cheek  has  made  of  his  own  palm, 

Sighing,  a  bed.    Father  and  father-in-law 
Are  they  of  him,  who  is  the  woe  of  France ;  109 

They  know  his  vicious  and  foul  life,  and  thence 


176  THE  DIVINE  COMEDY 

Has  sprung  the  grief  that  so  transfixes  them. 
He,  who  seems  so  large-limbed,  whose  song  accords        112 

"With  that  of  him  who  has  the  virile  nose. 

Was  girded  with  the  cord  of  every  worth. 
And  if  the  youth,  who  there  behind  him  sits,  11^ 

Had  after  him  remained  the  king,  then  worth 

From  vessel  unto  vessel  would  have  passed ; 
Which  of  the  other  heirs  can  not  be  said.  11® 

The  realms  are  held  by  James  and  Frederick : 

But  no  one  has  the  better  heritage. 
'Tis  seldom  through  the  branches  rises  up  121 

Man's  goodness;  and  the  Giver  wills  it  so, 

That  we  may  make  our  prayer  for  it  to  Him. 
My  words  fit  him,  the  large-nosed  one,  as  well 

As  they  do  Peter,  who  is  with  him  singing ; 

Wherefore  Apulia  and  Provence  now  grieve. 
The  plant  is  as  inferior  to  the  seed 

As,  more  than  Beatrice  and  Margaret, 

Constance  is  boasting  of  a  husband  still. 
Behold  the  monarch  of  the  simple  life, 

Henry  of  England,  sitting  there  alone; 

He  in  his  branches  has  a  better  issue. 
He,  who  is  seated  lowest  on  the  ground  188 

Among  them,  looking  up,  is  Marquis  William, 

For  whom  both  Alessandria  and  her  war 
Make  Montferrat  and  Canavese  weep. '  *  18* 


CANTO  VIII 

It  was  the  hour  that  sends  the  longing  back 
Of  those  upon  the  sea,  and  melts  their  hearts. 
The  day  that  they  have  bid  sweet  friends  farewell ; 

That  pierces  the  new  pilgrim's  heart  with  love, 


124 


127 


180 


PURGATORIO,  VIII  177 

If  he  but  hear  the  far-off  bell,  that  seems 

To  mourn  the  dying  day,  when  I  began 
To  render  vain  my  hearing,  and  to  gaze  7 

Upon  one  of  the  souls  that  had  arisen, 

And  with  its  hand  besought  that  others  hear. 
Then,  joining  both  its  palms,  it  lifted  them  10 

And  fixed  its  look  toward  the  eastern  sky, 

As  if  it  said  to  God  :  * '  I  heed  naught  else. ' ' 
Te  lucis  ante  came  forth  from  its  lips  13 

With  such  devotion  and  with  such  sweet  notes. 

As  made  me  leave  behind  me  my  own  thought ; 
And  then  the  others,  sweetly  and  devout,  16 

Did  follow  on  in  singing  all  the  hymn, 

Having  their  eyes  on  the  supernal  wheels. 
Here,  reader,  sharpen  well  thine  eyes  for  truth;  19 

Surely  the  veil  is  now  so  thin  indeed 

That  it  is  easy  to  pass  through  within. 
I  saw  that  gentle  army  silently  22 

Thereafter  gazing  up  to  heaven,  as  though 

In  some  expectancy,  pallid  and  meek ; 
And  from  the  height  came  downward  as  I  looked,  25 

Two  angels  with  two  swords  of  flaming  fire. 

But  shortened  and  deprived  of  their  points. 
Green  as  the  little  leaves  just  coming  forth  28 

Their  garments  were,  which  by  their  wings  of  green 

Were  smitten,  flowing  after  them,  and  fanned. 
Above  our  heads  one  angel  stopped  his  flight,  31 

The  other  on  the  other  bank  came  down. 

So  that  the  folk  was  kept  between  them  there. 
Plainly  could  I  distinguish  their  blond  heads;  34 

But  by  their  faces  was  my  vision  dazzled. 

As  any  power,  confounded  by  excess. 
*'They  both  from  Mary's  bosom  have  come  down,''  37 

Sordello  said,  **as  guardians  of  this  vale 


178  THE  DIVINE  COMEDY 

Against  the  serpent,  that  shall  straightway  come. ' ' 
And  I,  who  knew  not  by  what  path  it  came,  *^ 

Turned  me  around,  and  chilly  through  and  through, 

Moved  to  the  trusted  shoulders  closer  still. 
Again  Sordello:  ''Let  us  at  length  go  down  43 

Among  the  mighty  shades,  and  speak  to  them ; 

To  see  you  here  will  give  them  much  delight.'' 
Only  three  steps,  I  think,  I  then  went  down,  ^^ 

And  was  below,  and  saw  one  watching  me 

Alone,  as  if  to  make  out  who  I  was. 
The  air  was  darkening,  yet  not  so  much  4^ 

But  that  whate'er  between  his  eyes  and  mine 

It  hid  at  first  it  could  make  clear  to  us. 
Toward  me  he  moved,  and  I  too  moved  toward  him ;         52 

My  Nino,  noble  judge,  what  joy  was  mine 

To  see  that  thou  wert  not  among  the  damned ! 
No  salutation  fair  from  each  to  each  ^5 

Was  silent ;  then  he  asked : ' '  When  cam'st  thou  first 

0  'er  the  far  waters  to  the  mountain 's  foot  ? ' ' 
**0h,"  answered  I,  ''this  morning  I  came  forth  ^^ 

From  out  the  dismal  places,  and  am  still 

In  my  first  life,  though  I  would  win  the  other 
Thus  journeying."    When  my  response  was  heard,  ^^ 

Sordello  and  the  other  one  drew  back. 

Like  folk  who  were  bewildered  suddenly. 
One  turned  to  Virgil,  and  the  other  cried  ^ 

To  one  who  sat  there :  ' '  Conrad,  rise  and  come 

To  see  what  God  hath  in  His  favor  willed." 
"By  that  especial  gratitude  thou  owest,"  ^^ 

Turning  to  me,  he  said,  ' '  to  Him  who  hides 

His  primal  cause  so  that  there  is  no  ford 
To  reach  it,  when  thou  crossest  the  wide  waves,  ^^ 

Say  to  my  Joan,  that  she  shall  cry  for  me 

Where  answer  to  the  innocent  is  made. 


PURGATORIO,  VIII  179 


I  do  not  think  her  mother  loves  me  longer  73 

Since  she  has  changed  her  widow's  wimples  white, 
"Which  she  must  long  for,  wretched,  once  again. 

By  her  may  very  easily  be  learned  76 

How  long  the  fire  of  love  in  woman  lasts, 
If  eye  and  touch  do  not  oft  kindle  it. 

The  viper  that  is  over  Milan 's  camp  79 

"Will  not  make  her  so  fair  a  sepulture 
As  would  have  done  Gallura's  cock."    His  face 

As  he  was  speaking  bore  impressed  on  it  82 

The  token  of  the  zeal  for  righteousness, 
"Which  glows  within  the  heart  in  measure  due. 

My  greedy  eyes  went  up  to  heaven  alone,  85 

There  only  where  the  stars  more  slowly  turn. 
As  nearer  to  its  axle  doth  the  wheel. 

My  Leader  said:  "My  son,  what  watchest  thou  88 

Up  there?"    ''Yonder  three  torches,"  answered  I, 
''Wherewith  this  pole  of  heaven  is  all  aglow." 

And  then  he  said  to  me :  "  The  four  bright  stars,  91 

"Which  thou  this  morning  sawest,  are  sunk  low 
On  the  other  side,  and  these  are  where  those  were. ' ' 

While  he  yet  spoke,  Sordello  drew  him  toward  94 

Himself,  and  said:  "Behold  our  enemy," 
And  pointed  where  he  would  that  he  should  look. 

On  that  side,  where  the  little  valley  had  97 

No  barrier  erected,  was  a  snake. 
Perchance  such  as  gave  Eve  the  bitter  food. 

The  evil  reptile  came  through  grass  and  flowers,  100 

And  ever  and  anon  turned  back  his  head. 
Licking,  as  does  a  beast  that  sleeks  itself. 

I  noted  not,  and  so  I  cannot  say,  103 

The  way  in  which  the  heavenly  Falcons  moved. 
But  yet  in  motion  saw  I  both  of  them. 

For  when  he  heard  the  green  wings  cleave  the  air,  106 


180  THE  DIVINE  COMEDY 

The  serpent  fled,  and  the  two  angels  wheeled 

In  upward  equal  flight  back  to  their  posts. 
The  shade  which  had  drawn  closer  to  the  judge  109 

When  he  had  called,  throughout  the  assault  took  not 

His  eyes  one  instant  from  beholding  me. 
**So  may  the  lantern  which  leads  thee  on  high  112 

Find  in  thine  own  free-will  so  much  of  wax 

As  to  the  enameled  summit  is  required, ' ' 
So  it  began,  * '  if  thou  dost  know  true  news  115 

Of  Valdimacra  or  the  region  near, 

Then  tell  me,  for  I  once  was  powerful  there. 
My  name  was  Conrad  Malaspina,  not  118 

The  elder,  but  the  younger,  sprung  from  him; 

For  mine  I  had  the  love  which  here  is  cleansed. ' ' 
*  *  Oh, ' '  said  I  to  him,  * '  I  have  never  been  121 

Within  your  country's  bounds;  but  where  lives  he 

Throughout  all  Europe,  who  knows  not  of  them? 
The  fame  which  is  the  honor  of  your  house  124 

Proclaims  its  lords,  proclaims  their  country  so, 

They  know  it  well,  who  yet  were  never  there. 
I  swear  to  you,  so  may  I  go  on  high,  127 

That  your  most  honored  house  lays  not  aside 

The  glory  of  the  purse  nor  of  the  sword. 
Custom  and  Nature  both  so  favor  it,  180 

That,  though  the  guilty  head  set  wrong  the  world, 

It  goes  straight  on,  and  scorns  the  evil  way/' 
And  he : '  *  Go,  then ;  for  seven  times  the  sun  133 

Shall  not  return  to  that  couch,  which  the  Ram 

With  his  four  feet  now  covers  and  bestrides, 
Before  this  courteous  esteem  of  thine  13* 

Shall  in  the  middle  of  thy  head  be  nailed 

With  greater  nails  than  those  of  others '  speech, 
Unless  the  course  of  judgment  shall  be  stayed."  139 


PURGATORIO,  IX  181 


CANTO  IX 

The  concubine  of  old  Tithonus  now 

Forth  from  her  sweet  friend 's  arms,  was  growing  white 

Upon  her  balcony  in  the  eastern  sky; 
Her  forehead  all  resplendent  was  with  gems,  4 

Set  in  the  shape  of  that  cold  animal. 

Who  with  his  tail  inflicts  his  blows  on  men ; 
And,  of  the  steps  with  which  she  climbs,  the  Night  7 

Had  taken  two  in  that  place  where  we  were, 

And  now  the  third  was  bending  low  its  wings, 
When  I,  who  had  with  me  somewhat  of  Adam,  10 

0  'ercome  by  sleep,  reclined  upon  the  grass, 

Where  we  already  had  our  seats,  all  five. 
It  was  the  hour  before  the  dawn,  when  first  13 

The  swallow  sings  her  melancholy  lays. 

Perchance  in  memory  of  former  woes. 
And  when  our  mind  is  more  a  wanderer  16 

From  flesh,  and  less  held  captive  to  our  thought, 

And  in  its  visions  is  almost  divine ; 
In  dream  I  seemed  to  see  an  eagle  poised  19 

In  heaven,  golden-feathered,  and  with  wings 

Outspread,  and  all  intent  on  swooping  down. 
It  seemed  to  me  that  I  was  at  that  place  22 

Where  Ganymede's  folk  were  left  behind, 

When  to  the  highest  conclave  he  was  rapt. 
And  in  myself  I  thought :  Perhaps  it  strikes  25 

Here  only  through  its  custom,  and  disdains 

Elsewhere  to  bear  aught  upward  in  its  claws. 
And  then  it  seemed,  that  having  wheeled  a  little,  28 

It  came  down,  terrible  as  thunderbolt. 

And  snatched  me  up,  as  far  as  to  the  fire ; 
And  there  it  seemed  that  it  and  I  both  burned,  31 


182  THE  DIVINE  COMEDY 

And  so  the  imagined  conflagration  scorched 

That  I  perforce  was  wakened  from  my  sleep. 
Not  otherwise  Achilles  shook  himself,  ^ 

Turning  his  eyes  about  him  as  he  woke, 

Not  knowing  where  he  was,  when  he  was  stolen 
From  Chiron  by  his  mother,  and  was  borne  37 

Still  sleeping  in  her  arms  across  to  Scyros, 

Whence  afterwards  the  Greeks  made  him  depart ; 
Than  I  was  startled  now,  when  from  my  face  ^ 

Sleep  took  its  flight,  and  I  grew  deathly  pale, 

Like  one  in  terror,  who  turns  icy  cold. 
My  Comforter  was  at  my  side  alone,  *5 

The  sun  already  more  than  two  hours  high; 

And  I  was  with  my  face  turned  toward  the  sea. 
*  *  Be  not  afraid, ' '  my  Lord  said,  * '  be  assured  *^ 

That  we  have  to  a  point  of  vantage  come ; 

Restrain  not,  rather  put  forth  all  thy  strength; 
For  thou  art  now  to  Purgatory  come;  ^ 

See  there  the  ledge  that  closes  it  around; 

Where  it  seems  parted  is  the  way  within. 
But  now  when  in  the  white  dawn  ere  the  day  52 

Thy  soul  within  thee  slept  upon  the  flowers, 

With  which  the  place  below  is  beautiful, 
A  Lady  came,  and  said,  *I  am  Lucia;  W 

Permit  that  I  take  him  who  is  asleep, 

And  I  will  thus  assist  him  on  his  way.' 
Sordello  and  the  other  noble  forms  58 

Remained ;  she  took  thee,  and  as  day  grew  bright 

Went  upward,  and  I  followed  in  her  track. 
She  placed  thee  here ;  and  when  her  fair  eyes  first  ^^ 

Had  showed  me  yonder  entrance  in  the  rocks, 

Both  she  and  sleep  together  went  away.*' 
As  one  who  in  his  doubt  is  reassured,  •* 

And  changes  into  comfort  what  was  fear 


PURGATORIO,  IX  183 

After  the  truth  has  been  revealed  to  him, 
I  changed ;  and  as  my  Leader  saw  that  now  67 

I  was  without  a  care,  up  by  the  cliff 

He  moved,  and  I  behind  him  toward  the  height. 
Reader,  thou  seest  well  how  I  exalt  70 

My  matter,  and,  if  therefore  with  more  art 

I  am  sustaining  it,  pray,  marvel  not. 
"We  had  drawn  nigh,  and  were  at  such  a  place,  73 

That,  where  first  seemed  to  me  to  be  a  break. 

Or  a  mere  fissure  that  divides  a  wall, 
I  saw  a  gate,  and,  lower  down,  three  steps,  76 

By  which  to  come  to  it,  of  divers  colors ; 

And  too,  a  porter,  who  as  yet  spoke  not. 
And  as  I  opened  wider  still  my  eye,  79 

I  saw  him  seated  on  the  topmost  step. 

Such  in  his  face,  that  I  endured  it  not. 
And  in  his  hand  he  had  a  naked  sword,  82 

That  so  cast  on  us  its  reflected  rays, 

That  I  would  often  lift  my  eyes  in  vain. 
*  *  Speak  where  ye  are,  what  is  it  ye  desire  ? ' '  85 

Thus  he  began  to  say ;  ' '  where  is  the  guide  ? 

Beware  lest  coming  upward  work  you  harm. ' ' 
'  *  A  Lady,  come  from  heaven,  aware  of  this, ' '  88 

My  Master  made  reply  to  him,  ''but  now 

Has  told  us,  'Yonder  go,  there  is  the  gate.'  '' 
"May  she  advance  your  steps  in  good  still  more,"  91 

Began  the  courteous  guardian  of  the  gate ; 

"Do  ye  come  forward  then  unto  our  stairs." 
When  to  the  first  great  stair  we  had  come  up,  ^* 

Its  marble  was  so  polished,  white  and  smooth, 

That  I  was  mirrored  in  it  as  I  am ; 
The  next  of  darker  hue  than  purple-black,  *7 

"Was  of  a  rough  stone,  as  if  seared  with  fire. 

And  cracked  throughout  its  length  and  all  across; 


184  THE  DIVINE  COMEDY 

The  third,  which  uppermost  amassed  itself,  100 

Seemed  to  me  porphyry,  as  flaming  bright 
As  is  the  blood  which  spurts  forth  from  a  vein. 

On  this  God's  Angel  had  placed  both  his  feet,  103 

While  seated  on  the  threshold  of  the  gate, 
"Which  seemed  to  me  a  rock  of  adamant. 

My  Leader  drew  me  of  my  own  good  will  106 

Up  over  the  three  steps,  and  said  to  me : 
''Humbly  beseech  that  he  undo  the  lock.*' 

Devoutly  prostrate  at  the  holy  feet,  109 

I  craved  the  mercy  of  his  opening; 
But  first  I  smote  three  times  upon  my  breast. 

Then  seven  P's  upon  my  brow  he  wrote  112 

With  his  sword's  point,  and  said:  ''When  thou 
Hast  come  within,  see  that  thou  bathe  these  wounds.*' 

Ashes,  or  earth,  that  has  been  dug  out  dry,  US 

Would  be  of  one  shade  with  the  garb  he  wore, 
And  from  beneath  that  he  drew  forth  two  keys. 

One  was  of  gold,  of  silver  was  the  other ;  118 

First  with  the  white,  and  with  the  yellow  next 
He  so  did  to  the  gate  that  I  was  glad. 

"Whenever  one  of  these  two  keys  so  fails,  121 

That  it  turns  not  aright  within  the  lock," 
Said  he  to  us,  "this  narrow  way  bides  closed. 

One  is  more  precious,  but  the  other  calls  124 

For  much  of  art  and  wit  ere  it  unlocks, 
Because  it  is  the  one  to  loose  the  knot. 

From  Peter's  hand  I  have  them,  and  he  said  127 

'Twere  better  fault  to  open  than  keep  locked, 
If  people  cast  themselves  before  my  feet.*' 

Then  of  the  sacred  portal  he  pushed  in  130 

The  door,  and  said :  "  Go  in,  but  learn  of  me, 
That  he  who  looks  behind  returns  outside.  * ' 

And  when  the  pivots  of  that  sacred  door,  133 


PURGATORIO,  X  185 


136 


Which  are  of  metal,  resonant  and  strong, 
Within  their  hinges  turned,  Tarpeia  gave 

Not  forth  such  roaring  nor  appeared  so  harsh. 
When  good  Metellus  was  led  out  from  her, 
And  she  for  that  remained  thereafter  poor. 

Then  I,  attentive  to  the  first  tone,  turned  13& 

And  Te  Deum  laudamus  seemed  to  hear. 
As  'twere  a  voice  commingled  with  sweet  sound. 

The  same  impression  was  made  on  me  then  l^^ 

By  what  I  heard,  as  we  are  wont  to  have 
When  one  is  singing  with  the  instruments; 

For  now  the  words  are  heard,  and  now  are  not. 


145 


CANTO  X 

We  were  within  the  threshold  of  the  gate, 
Which  evil  love  in  souls  unlearns  to  use. 
Because  it  makes  the  crooked  way  seem  straight. 

When  I  by  sound  perceived  it  to  be  closed ;  * 

If  I  had  turned  my  eyes  to  look  at  it. 
What  fit  excuse  had  there  been  for  the  fault? 

We  were  then  climbing  through  a  rocky  cleft,  ^^ 

Which  moved  to  one  and  then  the  other  side 
Like  waters  that  recede  and  then  draw  near. 

' '  Here  there  is  need  to  use  a  little  art, ' '  1^ 

Began  my  Leader,  ''as  we  closer  draw. 
Now  here,  now  there,  to  that  side  which  recedes. ' ' 

And  this  had  caused  our  steps  to  be  so  scant,  ^^ 

That  ere  we  had  gone  through  this  needle's  eye 
Already  had  the  moon's  decreasing  disk 

Regained  its  bed,  and  sunk  again  to  rest. 
But  when  we  were  in  free  and  open  space. 
Up  where  the  mountain  backward  draws  together, 


16 


186  THE  DIVINE  COMEDY 

I,  wearied,  and  we  both  unsure,  which  way  1^ 

Was  ours,  we  stopped  upon  a  level  place, 
More  lonely  than  the  roads  through  desert  lands; 

And  from  its  edge,  the  limit  of  the  void,  22 

To  where  from  base  the  high  bank  rises  sheer, 
A  human  body  in  three  times  would  measure ; 

And  there,  far  as  my  eye  in  flight  could  reach,  25 

Now  on  the  left  side  and  now  on  the  right. 
This  cornice  seemed  to  me  to  be  the  same. 

Our  feet  had  not  yet  moved  thereon,  before  28 

I  had  perceived  the  bank, — which  swept  around 
And,  being  upright,  gave  no  path  to  mount, — 

To  be  of  marble,  white  and  so  adorned  31 

"With  sculptures,  that  not  Polycletus'  self 
But  Nature  even  were  there  put  to  shame. 

The  Angel,  who  came  down  with  that  decree  84 

Of  peace  on  earth,  wept-for  so  many  years. 
Which  opened  Heaven  from  its  long  interdict, 

Appeared  before  us  there  so  truly  carved  37 

And  in  such  attitude  of  gentleness, 
That  he  seemed  not  an  image  that  is  dumb; 

One  would  take  oath  that  he  was  saying  Ave;  *0 

Because  she  too  was  imaged  there,  who  turned 
The  key  to  open  the  exalted  love; 

And  in  her  mien  she  had  impressed  these  words,  *3 

Ecce  ancilla  Dei  in  very  form. 
As  is  a  figure,  that  is  stamped  in  wax. 

"Fix  not  thy  mind  upon  one  place  alone,*'  ^ 

The  gentle  Master  said,  who  had  me  then 
Upon  that  side  where  people  have  their  hearts ; 

Wherefore  I  turned  away  my  eyes,  and  saw,  *• 

Beyond  where  Mary  was,  and  at  that  side, 
Where  he  was  standing  who  was  urging  me. 

Another  story  put  upon  the  rock.  5* 


PURGATORIO,  X  187 

Wherefore  I  passed  by  Virgil,  and  drew  near, 

So  that  it  might  be  set  before  my  eyes. 
Carved  in  the  very  marble  was  the  cart  55 

On  which  the  oxen  drew  the  sacred  ark, 

That  makes  men  fear  an  office  not  assigned. 
People  appeared  in  front;  and  all  of  them  58 

In  seven  bands  divided,  made  one  sense 

Say,  *'No,"  the  other,  ''Yes,  they  really  sing." 
Likewise  about  the  smoke  of  incense  clouds  61 

That  had  been  imaged  there,  the  eyes  and  nose 

Became  discordant  with  their  Yes  and  No. 
And  there  before  the  blessed  vessel,  went  ^ 

The  lowly  Psalmist,  dancing,  with  loins  girt. 

Both  more  and  less  than  King  in  such  a  state. 
At  a  great  palace  window  opposite  67 

Was  MichaPs  figure  carved,  thence  looking  down, 

A  lady  of  a  sad  and  scornful  mien. 
I  moved  my  feet  from  that  place  where  I  stood  70 

To  look  more  clearly  at  another  story. 

Which,  further  on  than  Michal,  gleamed  all  white. 
The  exalted  glory  of  the  Roman  prince,  73 

Whose  worth  it  was  incited  Gregory 

To  his  great  victory,  was  storied  here ; 
I  speak  of  Emperor  Trajan,  near  whom  stood  76 

A  widow  at  the  bridle  of  his  steed. 

In  attitude  of  weeping  and  of  grief. 
Around  him  seemed  to  be  a  trampling  throng  79 

Of  horsemen,  and  the  eagles  in  the  gold 

Above  his  head  moved  plainly  in  the  wind. 
The  wretched  woman  stood  among  them  all,  82 

And  seemed  to  say :  ' '  My  Lord,  do  vengeance  now 

For  me  for  my  son's  death,  that  breaks  my  heart.'' 
And  he  made  answer  to  her :  ' '  Only  wait  85 

Until  I  have  returned. ' '    And  she,  like  one 


188  THE  DIVINE  COMEDY 

In  whom  distress  is  urgent,  said :  ' '  My  Lord, 
If  thou  do  not  return  ? ' '    And  he :  '  *  The  one  88 

Who  has  my  place  shall  do  it. "    "  What  shall  be 

To  thee  his  good,  if  thou  forget  thine  own?" 
Then  he :  ''Now  comfort  thee,  for  I  must  needs  ^^ 

Fulfil  my  duty  ere  I  move  from  here ; 

For  justice  wills  it;  pity  holds  me  back/' 
The  One,  who  never  sees  a  thing  unknown,  ^* 

Produced  that  speaking  for  the  eyes  to  see. 

Novel  to  us,  because  not  found  on  earth. 
While  I  was  there  rejoicing  to  behold  *7 

The  images  of  such  humilities, 

And,  for  their  Maker's  sake,  so  dear  to  see, 
The  Poet  murmured :  ' '  See,  here  at  this  side  ^00 

Are  many  people,  but  they  take  few  steps ; 

These  will  direct  us  to  the  lofty  stairs. ' ' 
My  eyes,  that  were  on  gazing  so  intent,  103 

Were  swift  to  turn  about  toward  him  to  see 

Whatever  new  was  there,  as  they  are  fain. 
I  would  not,  reader,  that  thou  be  dismayed  1^6 

From  any  purposed  good,  because  thou  hearest 

How  God  wills  that  indebtedness  be  paid. 
Give  no  attention  to  the  form  of  pain;  109 

Think  of  what  follows ;  think,  that  at  the  worst, 

Beyond  the  Judgment-Day  it  cannot  go. 

*  *  Master, ' '  began  I, '  *  that  which  yonder  seems  112 

To  come  toward  us,  appears  not  to  be  men, — 
I  know  not  what,  my  sight  is  so  confused.** 

*  *  Their  burdened  state  of  torment, ' '  answered  he,  H^ 

*  *  Is  bending  them  so  downward  to  the  earth. 
My  eyes  at  first  had  need  to  struggle  too. 
But  look  there  fixedly,  and  by  the  sight  118 

Distinguish  what  comes  on  beneath  those  rocks. 
Thou  canst  now  see  how  each  one  beats  his  breast. ' ' 


PURGATORIO,  XI  189 

0  ye  proud  Christians,  wretched,  weary  souls,  121 

Who,  sick  in  vision  of  the  mind,  have  trust 
In  backward  steps,  do  ye  not  understand. 

That  we  are  worms  that  have  been  born  to  form  124 

The  angelic  butterfly,  which  wings  its  way 
Upward  to  judgment,  lacking  all  defence? 

Why  do  your  minds  lift  up  themselves  on  high,  127 

When  ye  are  but  defective  insects  still. 
Even  as  worms  in  which  formation  fails? 

As  to  support  a  ceiling  or  a  roof  130 

Sometimes  a  figure  corbel-wise  is  seen 
To  bring  his  knees  up  to  his  breast,  and  cause 

By  unreality  a  real  distress  133 

In  him  who  sees  it;  even  such  I  saw 
These  were,  when  I  had  given  heed  to  them. 

True  it  is,  these  were  more  or  less  bowed  down,  136 

As  they  had  more  or  less  upon  their  backs; 
And  he,  who  had  most  patience  in  his  mien, 

Weeping,  appeared  to  say :  "  I  can  no  more. "  139 

CANTO  XI 

^  *  0  Thou  our  Father,  who  art  in  the  heavens. 

Not  circumscribed,  but  for  the  greater  love 

Thou  bearest  to  the  first  effects  on  high. 
Praise  to  Thy  Name  and  to  Thy  Power  be  4 

From  every  creature,  as  it  is  most  meet 

To  render  thanks  for  thy  sweet  effluence. 
The  peace  of  thine  own  Kingdom  come  to  us,  7 

For  we  cannot  attain  to  it  ourselves 

With  all  our  mind,  if  it  come  not  to  us. 
As  of  their  will  Thine  angels  make  to  Thee  10 

Their  sacrifice,  as  they  Hosanna  sing. 

So  may  all  men  make  sacrifice  of  theirs. 


190  THE  DIVINE  COMEDY 

Our  daily  Manna  give  to  us  this  day,  1' 

Without  which  through  this  rough  and  desert  land 
He  backward  goes,  who  toils  most  to  go  on; 

And  as  we  have  forgiven  every  one  !• 

The  ill  that  we  have  borne,  do  Thou  forgive 
In  mercy,  and  regard  not  our  desert. 

Our  virtue,  which  is  easily  subdued,  1® 

Let  not  the  ancient  adversary  tempt. 
But  from  him  who  attacks,  deliver  us. 

This  latest  prayer,  dear  Lord,  is  uttered  now  22 

Not  for  ourselves,  because  there  is  no  need. 
But  for  their  sake,  who  have  remained  behind. '  * 

Thus  praying  for  themselves  and  us  good  speed,  25 

These  shades  kept  on  their  way,  under  a  load 
Like  that  of  which  we  sometimes  dream  in  sleep, 

Unequally  distressed,  all  circling  round  28 

Along  this  lowest  cornice  wearily. 
Purging  away  the  cloudiness  of  earth. 

If  prayer  for  us  is  always  rising  there,  •! 

What  can  be  here  both  done  and  said  for  them 
By  those,  whose  wills  are  rooted  in  the  good? 

Surely  men  ought  to  help  them  wash  away  5* 

The  marks  that  they  bore  hence,  that  they  may  rise, 
Made  clean  and  light,  up  to  the  wheeling  stars. 

**Pray,  so  may  justice  and  compassion  soon  37 

Unburden  you  and  let  you  move  the  wing, 
That  shall  uplift  you  as  ye  do  desire. 

Show  us  upon  which  hand  the  shortest  path  ^ 

Leads  to  the  stairway,  and  if  more  than  one, 
Teach  us  the  one  that  slopes  least  steep  of  all ; 

As  this  one  who  is  with  me,  for  the  weight  ^ 

Of  Adam's  flesh,  with  which  he  still  is  clad, 
Is  slow  in  mounting  up,  against  his  will.'* 

Their  words,  which  had  been  uttered  answering  those,    ^^ 


PURGATORIO,  XI  191 

Which  he  whom  I  was  following  had  said, 

It  was  not  manifest  from  whom  they  came ; 
But  it  was  said :  ' '  Come  ye  toward  the  right  4^ 

Along  the  bank  with  us,  and  ye  shall  find 

The  pass  a  living  person  may  ascend. 
And  if  I  were  not  hindered  by  the  stone,  52 

Which  is  subduing  now  my  haughty  neck, 

So  that  I  needs  must  carry  my  face  low, 
At  this  one  I  would  look,  who  still  alive  55 

Names  not  himself,  to  see  if  I  may  know  him, 

And  for  this  burden  make  him  pitiful. 
I  was  a  Latin,  a  great  Tuscan 's  son ;  58 

Guglielmo  Aldobrandesco  was  my  father. 

I  know  not  if  his  name  was  ever  with  you. 
Because  of  ancient  blood  and  gallant  deeds,  61 

My  ancestors  made  me  so  arrogant, 

That  of  our  common  mother  I  thought  not. 
And  went  so  far  in  scorn  of  every  man,  64 

I  died  for  it,  the  Sienese  know  well, 

And  every  child  in  Campagnatico. 
I  am  Omberto ;  not  to  me  alone  67 

Has  pride  done  harm,  but  all  my  fellows  too 

It  swept  on  to  disaster  with  itself; 
And  therefore  here,  till  God  be  satisfied,  70 

I  must  needs  bear  this  weight  among  the  dead, 

Because  among  the  living  I  would  not.'' 
As  I  was  listening,  I  held  down  my  face;  73 

And  one  of  them,  not  he  who  spoke  to  me. 

Twisted  himself  beneath  his  crushing  load. 
And  saw  and  knew  me  and  was  crying  out,  76 

Holding  his  eyes  with  dilBficulty  fixed 

Upon  me,  as  all  bent  I  walked  by  them. 
*'Art  not  thou  Oderisi,"  answered  I,  79 

''Honor  of  Gubbio,  and  of  that  art. 


192  THE  DIVINE  COMEDY 

Which  is  in  Paris  called  illuminating?" 
** Brother,"  said  he,  ''more  smiling  are  the  leaves  ^2 

Of  Franco  of  Bologna's  penciling; 

The  honor  is  all  his,  and  mine  in  part. 
Truly  so  courteous  I  had  not  been  86 

While  I  was  living,  for  my  great  desire 

Of  excellence,  on  which  my  heart  was  set. 
*Tis  here  is  paid  the  fee  of  such  a  pride ;  88 

And  I  were  not  yet  here,  if  it  were  not. 

That,  still  with  power  to  sin,  I  turned  to  God. 
Oh,  the  vainglory  of  the  powers  of  man !  •! 

How  short  the  time  the  green  upon  its  top 

Endures,  if  ruder  ages  follow  not! 
In  painting  Cimabue  thought  to  hold  ^ 

The  field,  and  now  hath  Giotto  all  the  cry, 

So  that  the  other's  fame  is  grown  obscure. 
So  hath  one  Guido  from  the  other  taken  ^ 

The  glory  of  our  tongue,  and  one  is  bom, 

Who  shall,  perchance,  drive  both  from  out  the  nest. 
For  earthly  fame  is  but  a  breath  of  wind,  1^0 

That  now  from  this  side  comes,  and  now  from  that, 

And  with  each  changing  quarter  changes  name. 
What  greater  fame  is  thine,  if  thou  unflesh  ^03 

Thee  in  old  age,  than  if  thou  were  to  die 

Ere  thou  wert  done  with  rattle  and  with  pap, 
Before  a  thousand  years,  a  time  beside  10^ 

Eternity  more  brief,  than  is  a  twinkling 

To  heaven's  circle  that  is  slowest  turned? 
The  fame  of  him,  who  makes  so  little  way  109 

In  front  of  me,  rang  through  all  Tuscany, 

And  scarcely  in  Siena  now  is  whispered, 
Where  he  was  lord,  when  they  destroyed  the  rage  1^2 

Of  Florence,  who  was  haughty  at  that  time, 

Even  as  now  she  has  grown  basely  vile. 


PURGATORIO,  XII  193 

Your  fame  is  as  the  color  of  the  grass,  115 

Which  comes  and  goes,  and  he  discolors  it, 
By  whom  its  tender  green  sprang  from  the  earth.'* 

And  I  to  him :  ' '  Thy  true  words  teach  my  heart  118 

A  humble  goodness,  and  bring  low  my  pride ; 
But  who  is  he  of  whom  thou  now  wert  speaking  ? '  * 

*^That,"  answered  he,  "is  Provenzan  Salvani;  121 

And  he  is  here,  because  he  had  presumed 
To  get  Siena  wholly  in  his  hands. 

Thus  he  has  gone,  and  goes,  without  repose  124 

E  'er  since  he  died ;  who  dares  too  much  on  earth 
Must  pay  such  coin  in  satisfaction  here.'* 

And  I :  ' '  If  now  that  spirit  which  awaits,  127 

Ere  it  repent,  the  very  brink  of  life, 
Eemains  below  and  may  not  mount  up  here. 

If  good  prayer  come  not  to  its  aid,  until  130 

As  long  a  time  has  passed  as  was  its  life, 
How  was  the  coming  up  vouchsafed  to  him?'* 

"When  his  life  was  most  glorious,"  said  he,  133 

"Freely  within  the  Campo  of  Siena 
He  took  his  stand,  all  shame  then  laid  aside. 

And  there,  that  he  might  free  his  friend  from  pains       136 
That  he  endured  as  prisoner  of  Charles, 
He  brought  himself  to  tremble  in  each  vein. 

I  say  no  more ;  I  know  that  I  speak  darkly,  139 

But  yet  ere  long  thy  neighbors  will  so  act. 
Thou  shalt  be  able  to  interpret  it. 

That  deed  it  was  removed  for  him  those  bounds. '  *  142 


CANTO  XII 

With  equal  pace,  like  oxen  'neath  the  yoke. 
We  went  along,  I  and  that  burdened  soul. 
As  long  as  the  sweet  Teacher  suffered  it. 


194  THE  DIVINE  COMEDY 

But  when  he  said :  *  *  Leave  him,  press  on,  for  here  * 

*Tis  well  that  with  the  sails  and  oars  each  one 
As  best  he  may  should  forward  urge  his  bark,** 

Erect,  as  walking  makes  it  needful,  I  7 

Raised  up  my  body,  though  my  thoughts  remained 
As  they  had  been,  both  stooping  and  abased. 

I  had  moved  onward,  and  was  following  W 

My  Master's  footsteps  gladly,  and  we  both 
Were  manifesting  now  how  light  we  were. 

When  thus  he  bade  me :  * '  Downward  turn  thine  eyes ;      13 
It  will  be  well  for  thee,  to  ease  thy  way, 
That  thou  behold  the  bed  beneath  thy  feet.** 

That  there  may  be  some  memory  of  them,  !• 

Above  the  buried  dead  their  level  tombs 
Have,  figured,  what  aforetime  they  have  been ; 

Whence  many  times  for  them  will  tears  be  shed,  ^^ 

Because  of  pricking  of  remembrance  there, 
That  only  to  the  pious  gives  the  spur, 

So  in  that  place  I  saw  all  figured  o  'er, —  M 

But  in  the  work,  of  better  likeness  far, — 
As  much  of  road  as  jutted  from  the  Mount. 

I  saw  that  one,  in  his  creation  nobler  25 

Than  any  other  creature,  down  from  heaven 
Descend  like  thunderbolt,  there  at  one  side. 

I  saw  Briareus,  on  the  other  side,  ^ 

Transfixed  by  the  celestial  bolt,  lie  there 
Heavy  upon  the  earth,  in  mortal  chill. 

I  saw  Thymbraeus,  I  saw  Pallas,  Mars,  •! 

Still  in  their  armor  at  their  father's  side, 
Looking  upon  the  giants*  scattered  limbs. 

I  saw,  too,  Nimrod  stand  beside  the  foot  ** 

Of  his  great  labor,  as  though  dazed,  and  watch 
Tribes  that  in  Shinar  had  been  proud  with  him. 

0  Niobe,  with  what  lamenting  eyes  *7 


PURGATORIO,  XII  195 

I  saw  thee,  sculptured  there  upon  the  road, 
And  on  each  hand  were  seven  children  slain ! 

0  Saul,  how  on  thine  own  sword  didst  thou  there  ^0 

Appear  in  death  upon  Gilboa's  height, 
"Which  knew  thereafter  neither  rain  nor  dew ! 

0  mad  Arachne,  so  I  saw  thee  sad,  ^^ 

Half  spider  now,  over  the  shreds  of  what 
Thy  hands  had  wrought  to  thine  own  injury ! 

0  Rehoboam,  here  thine  image  seems  *^ 
No  more  to  threaten,  but  with  terror  filled 

A  chariot  bears  it  off  ere  men  pursue ! 

Portrayed  in  the  hard  pavement  also  was  49 

How  costly  to  his  mother  Alcmaeon  made 
The  unpropitious  ornament  appear; 

Portrayed  how  his  own  sons  did  cast  themselves  52 

Within  the  Temple  on  Sennacherib, 
And  how,  when  he  was  dead,  they  left  him  there ; 

Portrayed  the  ruin  and  cruel  butchery  55 

Tamyris  wrought,  when  she  to  Cyrus  said : 
''Blood  hast  thou  thirsted  for,  with  blood  I  fill  thee;" 

Portrayed  how  the  Assyrians  in  rout  58 

Fled,  after  Holofernes  had  been  slain. 
And,  too,  the  relics  of  the  slaughtered  one. 

1  saw  there  Troy  in  ashes  and  in  caverns ;  ^^ 
0  Ilion,  how  low  and  vile  wert  thou 

Portrayed  by  the  image  that  is  there  discerned! 

"What  master  ever  was  of  brush  or  stylus,  ^* 

Who  could  set  forth  the  shadows  and  the  lines. 
That  there  would  make  each  subtle  wit  admire? 

Dead  seemed  the  dead,  the  living  seemed  alive;  ^^ 

Who  saw  the  real  saw  no  more  than  I 
In  what  I  trod  on,  as  I  went,  bowed  down. 

Then  be  ye  proud,  and  go  with  haughty  look,  70 

Children  of  Eve,  and  bend  not  down  your  face. 


196  THE  DIVINE  COMEDY 

So  that  ye  may  behold  your  evil  way. 
More  of  the  Mountain  we  have  gone  around,  73 

And  of  the  sun's  course  much  more  had  been  spent, 

Than  had  been  noted  by  the  mind  not  free, 
When  he,  who  ever  forward  with  his  mind  7« 

Attentive  went,  began:  ''Lift  up  thy  head; 

'Tis  time  no  more  to  go  in  such  suspense. 
See,  yonder  is  an  angel,  who  prepares  79 

To  come  toward  us;  see,  now  from  work  returns 

The  sixth  of  the  handmaidens  of  the  day; 
With  reverence  adorn  thine  acts  and  face,  82 

That  it  may  please  him  to  send  us  on  high; 

Think  that  this  day  shall  never  dawn  again.'' 
His  admonition  that  no  time  be  lost  85 

Was  so  familiar  to  me,  that  thereof 

He  could  not  speak  to  me  obscurely  now. 
To  us  came  on  the  Creature  Beautiful,  88 

Enrobed  in  white,  and  with  a  countenance 

Like  a  star  trembling  in  the  morning  sky. 
With  arms  outspread,  and  then  with  outspread  wings      91 

He  said  to  us:  ''Come;  here  the  steps  are,  near. 

And  easily  henceforth  does  one  ascend." 
How  few  are  they  that  to  this  bidding  come !  ^ 

0  human  kind,  born  to  fly  upward,  why 

At  such  a  little  wind  do  ye  so  fall? 
He  led  us  on  to  where  the  rock  was  cut,  ^7 

And  there  across  my  forehead  struck  his  wings; 

Then  promised  me  my  journey  should  be  safe. 
As  on  the  right,  to  scale  the  hill  whereon  100 

Above  the  Rubaconte  stands  the  church, 

That  dominates  the  City  guided  well. 
The  excessive  steepness  of  the  rise  is  broken  103 

By  steps,  that  had  been  placed  there  in  the  days 

When  records  and  when  measures  still  were  safe : 


PURGATORIO,  XII  197 

So  here  was  rendered  easier  the  bank,  106 

That  falls  off  sharply  from  the  round  above ; 

Though  here  and  there  the  high  rock  grazes  one. 
And  as  we  turned  our  persons  to  go  there,  109 

Beati  pauperes  spiritu  was  sung 

By  voices  in  such  wise  no  speech  could  tell. 
How  different  these  passes  are  from  those  112 

In  hell,  for  here  we  enter  in  with  song, 

But  there  below  with  lamentations  fierce ! 
We  now  were  mounting  by  the  sacred  stairs,  115 

And  I  appeared  far  lighter  to  myself 

Than  on  the  plain  I  had  appeared  before. 
Wherefore  I  said:  ''Master,  what  heavy  thing  US 

Is  lifted  from  me,  so  that,  as  it  were, 

I  feel  no  weariness  as  I  go  on?'' 
He  answered:  ''When  the  P's,  that  have  remained         121 

Upon  thy  face  and  are  almost  extinct, 

Shall,  like  the  one,  be  utterly  removed, 
Thy  feet  will  be  so  conquered  by  good  will,  124 

They  will  not  only  feel  no  weariness. 

But  their  delight  will  be  to  be  urged  on. ' ' 
And  then  I  did,  as  those  will  do,  who  go  127 

With  something  on  their  head  to  them  unknown, 

Except  another's  signs  make  them  suspect; 
So  that  the  hand  lends  aid  to  ascertain,  130 

And  searches  and  finds  out,  that  service  doing 

That  cannot  then  be  rendered  by  the  sight: 
And  with  the  fingers  of  my  right  hand  spread  133 

I  found  the  letters  only  six,  which  he 

Who  bore  the  keys  had  cut  above  my  temples; 
And,  seeing  what  I  did,  my  Leader  smiled.  136 


198  THE  DIVINE  COMEDY 


CANTO  XIII 


We  now  were  at  the  topmost  of  the  stairs, 

Where  was  cut  back  a  second  time  the  Mount, 

Which  frees  from  evil  those  ascending  it. 
There  too  a  cornice  binds  the  hill  about,  * 

In  manner  as  the  lower  one  had  done, 

Excepting  that  its  arc  more  quickly  curves. 
No  shade  is  there,  nor  figure  that  appears,  7 

So  bare  the  bank  appears,  so  bare  the  way, 

With  but  the  livid  color  of  the  stone. 
*'If  we  await  those  here  whom  we  may  ask,**  10 

The  Poet  said,  * '  I  fear  perchance  our  choice 

Will  have  too  much  delay;"  and  thereupon 
Fixed  on  the  sun  his  eyes  with  steady  gaze ;  1^ 

And  for  his  motion  made  of  his  right  side 

A  centre,  and  thus  turned  his  left  about. 
**0  thou  sweet  Light,  I  enter,  trusting  thee,  W 

On  this  new  way ;  be  thou  our  guide, '  *  said  he, 

*  *  As  it  is  needful  here  that  we  be  led : 
Thou  givest  earth  its  heat,  thou  art  its  light;  !• 

If  other  reason  to  the  contrary 

Urge  not,  thy  rays  ought  ever  to  be  guides.** 
As  far  as  here  is  reckoned  for  a  mile,  M 

So  far  had  we  already  gone  from  there 

In  little  time  because  of  ready  will; 
And  toward  us  in  their  flight  were  heard  to  come  ^ 

But  yet  not  seen  by  us,  spirits  that  gave 

Their  courteous  invitations  to  Love's  board. 
The  first  voice  that  was  passing  by  in  flight  ^ 

**Vinum  non  hahenV  loudly  said,  and  then 

Behind  us  went  along,  repeating  it. 
And  ere  it  utterly  from  hearing  passed  M 


PURGATORIO,  XITI  199 


As  it  withdrew,  ''I  am  Orestes/'  cried 

Another  passing,  that  too  halted  not. 
** Father,  what  voices,"  then  I  asked,  "are  these?"         34 

And  as  I  spoke,  behold,  the  third  one  said: 

**Love  them  who  have  done  evil  unto  you." 
And  the  good  Master  said :  ' '  This  circle  whips  37 

The  sin  of  envy,  and  on  that  account 

The  lashes  of  the  scourge  are  drawn  from  love. 
The  curb  must  be  of  a  contrasting  sound ;  ^^ 

And  to  my  mind,  I  think  that  thou  wilt  hear 

It  ere  thou  reach  the  Pass  of  Pardoning. 
But  fix  thine  eyes  intently  through  the  air,  43 

And  thou  shalt  see  a  people  seated  there 

In  front  of  us,  each  one  beside  the  cliff." 
And  then  I  opened  wider  still  my  eyes;  ^^ 

I  looked  ahead,  and  saw  there  shades  with  cloaks 

Not  different  in  color  from  the  stone. 
And  when  we  were  a  little  further  on,  49 

I  heard  a  cry :  ' '  0  Mary,  pray  for  us ! " 

And  cries  to  Michael,  Peter  and  all  Saints. 
I  do  not  think  there  goes  on  earth  today  52 

A  man  so  hard,  compassion  would  not  pierce 

At  sight  of  that  which  later  I  beheld ; 
For  when  I  had  approached  so  near  to  them,  55 

That  what  they  did  grew  clear  to  me,  the  tears 

Flowed  from  my  eyes  for  the  great  grief  I  felt. 
Coarse  haircloth  covered  them,  it  seemed  to  me,  58 

And  each  one  with  his  shoulder  did  support 

His  neighbor,  and  the  bank  supported  all. 
Thus  do  the  blind,  who  lack  the  earthly  goods,  ^^ 

Stand  at  the  Pardons,  begging  what  they  need, 

And  one  upon  the  other  drops  his  head, 
So  that  men 's  pity  may  be  quickly  spurred, 

Not  only  by  the  sound  of  what  is  said. 


64 


200  THE  DIVINE  COMEDY 

But  by  the  sight,  which  makes  no  less  a  plea. 
As  to  the  blind  the  sunlight  profits  not,  *^ 

So  to  these  shades,  where  I  was  speaking  then, 

The  light  of  heaven  was  not  bountiful ; 
For  all  their  eyelids  were  pierced  through  with  wire  70 

Of  iron,  and  so  stitched,  as  men  treat  hawks, 

Because  for  wildness  they  abide  not  still. 
It  seemed  to  me  I  did  them  outrage  thus  73 

Going  my  way  seeing,  not  being  seen; 

Wherefore  to  my  wise  Counselor  I  turned. 
He  well  knew  what  the  dumb  one  fain  would  say,  76 

And  so  he  waited  not  till  I  had  asked, 

But  said :  ' '  Speak,  and  be  brief  and  to  the  point. ' ' 
Virgil  was  coming  with  me  on  that  side,  79 

Where  from  the  cornice  it  is  possible 

To  fall,  because  no  rim  encircles  it; 
And  on  my  other  hand  the  pious  shades  82 

Were  there,  and  through  the  suture  horrible 

Pressed  out  the  tears,  that,  falling,  bathed  their  cheeks. 
I  turned  me  to  them,  and:  *'0  folk  assured,"  85 

Thus  I  began,  ''of  seeing  light  above, 

Which  your  desire  alone  has  in  its  care; 
So  may  grace  quickly  clear  away  the  scum  88 

From  ojff  your  consciences,  so  that  the  stream 

Of  memory  may  through  them  flow  down  clear, 
Tell  me, — 'twere  gracious  and  dear  to  me, —  ^1 

If  here  among  you  be  a  Latin  soul ; 

Perchance  'twere  good  for  it,  if  I  knew  that." 
'*0  brother,  each  one  is  a  citizen  ^* 

Of  a  true  city ;  but  thou  meanest  one. 

Who  passed  his  pilgrimage  in  Italy." 
These  words  as  a  reply  I  seemed  to  hear  ^7 

A  little  further  on  than  where  I  stood ; 

Wherefore  I  made  myself  heard  still  more  there. 


PURGATORIO,  XIII  201 

Among  the  others  was  a  shade  that  seemed  100 

Expectant ;  and  if  one  would  ask :  * ' How  so ?' ' 
It  was  that  he  like  a  blind  man  raised  his  chin. 

** Spirit,"  said  I,  ''who  conquerest  thyself  103 

To  mount,  if  it  was  thou  that  answeredst  me, 
Make  thyself  known  to  me  by  place  or  name. 

* '  I  was  a  Sienese,  and  with  the  rest  106 

Cleanse  here  my  guilty  life,  and  beg  with  tears 
Of  Him,  that  He  vouchsafe  Himself  to  us. 

Sapient  I  was  not,  though  Sapia  called,  109 

And  at  another's  hurt  I  was  by  far 
More  glad  than  at  good  fortune  of  my  own. 

That  thou  mayst  know  that  I  deceive  thee  not,  H^ 

Hear  if  I  was  not  mad,  as  I  have  said, 
My  arch  of  years  already  sweeping  down. 

Not  far  from  Colle  were  my  townsmen  joined  115 

In  battle  with  the  enemy,  and  I 
Had  prayed  to  God  for  that  which  He  had  willed. 

They  were  defeated  there,  and  turned  to  flight  n^ 

In  bitter  straits ;  and  when  I  saw  the  chase, 
I  felt  a  joy  unlike  all  other  joys; 

So  that  I  upward  turned  my  daring  face,  121 

And  cried  to  God :  '  1  fear  Thee  now  no  more, ' 
As  does  the  blackbird,  if  the  sky  but  clear. 

I  wished  for  peace  with  God  toward  the  end  124 

Of  life;  and  even  yet  by  penitence 
My  debt  had  not  been  lessened,  were  it  not 

That  one  had  held  me  in  his  memory,  127 

Pier  Pettignaao,  in  his  holy  prayers, 
"Who  in  his  charity  was  grieved  for  me. 

But  who  art  thou,  that  seekest  here  to  know  130 

Of  our  conditions,  and  hast  eyes  still  free. 
As  I  believe,  and  breathing  still,  dost  speak?" 

''My  eyes,"  said  I,  "shall  yet  from  me  be  taken;  133 


202  THE  DIVINE  COMEDY 

Though  for  but  little  time,  as  my  offence 
In  turning  them  with  envy,  is  but  slight. 

The  fear  is  greater  far,  at  which  my  soul  136 

Is  in  suspense,  of  pains  below,  for  I 
Already  with  that  burden  am  weighed  down.'* 

And  she  to  me :  '*  Who  then  has  guided  thee  139 

Up  here  to  us,  if  thou  thinkst  to  return  ? '  * 
And  I :  '  *  He  who  is  with  me,  and  speaks  not ; 

And  I  am  living;  therefore  ask  of  me,  1*2 

Spirit  elect,  if  thou  wilt  that  I  yet 
Should  move  my  mortal  feet  for  thee  on  earth/' 

"Oh,  this  is  such  a  novel  thing  to  hear,"  145 

Said  she;  *'it  is  a  great  mark  of  God's  love; 
Therefore  assist  me  sometimes  with  thy  prayer. 

And  I  beseech  by  what  thou  most  desirest,  1^8 

If  e  'er  thou  tread  the  land  of  Tuscany, 
That  thou  restore  my  fame  among  my  kin. 

For  thou  shalt  find  them  there  with  that  vain  folk  151 

That  hope  in  Talamone,  and  shall  lose 
More  hope  there  still,  than  seeking  the  Diana: 

But  even  more  the  admirals  will  lose  there."  15* 


CANTO  XIV 

"Who  is  this  one  that,  circling  thus  our  Mount 
Ere  death  have  given  him  the  power  of  flight, 
Opens  and  shuts  his  eyes  at  his  own  will  ? ' ' 

* '  I  know  not,  but  I  know  he  is  not  alone ; 
Do  thou,  who  art  the  nearer  to  him,  ask, 
And  greet  him  gently,  so  that  he  may  speak." 

Two  spirits,  who  against  each  other  leaned, 
Were  thus  discoursing  of  me  at  my  right; 
Then  turned  their  faces  up,  to  speak  to  me; 


PURGATORIO,  XIV  203 

And  one  of  them :  * '  0  soul,  that  still  confined  10 

Within  the  body,  journey  est  toward  heaven, 
For  charity  console  us  now,  and  say 

Whence  thou  hast  come  and  who  thou  art ;  for  thou  13 

Dost  make  us  marvel  so  at  this  thy  grace. 
As  that  must  do  which  never  yet  has  been/' 

Then  said  I :  * '  Through  mid  Tuscany  there  flows  16 

A  stream,  which  risen  on  Falterona's  height 
Finds  not  enough  the  hundred  miles  it  courses. 

I  bring  this  body  from  above  its  banks ;  19 

To  tell  you  who  I  am  would  be  vain  speech, 
Because  my  name  sounds  not  yet  far  abroad. ' ' 

*'If  with  my  intellect  I  penetrate  22 

Thy  meaning  clearly,"  then  replied  to  me 
He  who  spoke  first,  'Hhou  speakest  of  the  Arno.'' 

Then  said  the  other  to  him:  ''Why  did  he  25 

Conceal  that  river's  name,  as  does  a  man 
That  of  things  horrible?"    Whereon  the  shade 

Of  whom  the  question  had  been  asked,  made  thus  28 

His  answer  to  it :  * '  I  know  not,  but  meet 
Were  it  the  name  of  such  a  valley  perished ; 

For  from  its  source,  where  the  rough  mountain  chain,    31 
From  which  Pelorus  is  cut  off,  so  teems. 
That  in  few  places  it  exceeds  that  mark, 

Unto  the  place  to  which  it  goes  to  give  34 

That  back,  which  heaven  sucks  up  from  the  sea. 
Whence  all  the  rivers  take  what  flows  in  them. 

Virtue  is  driven  forth  by  all,  as  though  37 

An  enemy,  a  serpent, — ^be  its  cause 
The  ill-starred  region,  or  ill  habit 's  spur ; — 

Wherefore  the  dwellers  in  that  wretched  vale  40 

Have  so  transformed  their  nature,  that  it  seems 
As  if  they  were  in  Circe's  pasturing. 

Among  foul  hogs,  more  fit  for  acorns  than  43 


204  THE  DIVINE  COMEDY 

For  other  food,  that  hath  been  made  for  use 

Of  men,  it  first  directs  its  scanty  course. 
Curs  it  finds  next,  as  it  comes  flowing  down,  46 

More  snarling  than  their  power  is  calling  for, 

And  twists  its  muzzle  from  them  in  disdain. 
It  goes  on  falling,  and  the  more  it  swells,  ^ 

The  more  it  finds  the  dogs  becoming  wolves, 

The  accursed  and  ill-fated  ditch  it  is. 
Then  through  more  hollow  gorges  still  it  falls  52 

And  finds  the  foxes,  which  so  full  of  fraud 

Fear  not  that  wit  should  set  its  traps  for  them. 
I  will  not  cease,  because  another  hears ;  W 

It  will  be  well  for  him,  if  he  recall 

What  a  true  spirit  now  makes  clear  to  me. 
For  I  behold  thy  grandson,  who,  become  58 

A  hunter  of  those  wolves  upon  the  bank 

Of  that  proud  river,  terrifies  them  all. 
He  sells  their  flesh,  while  they  are  yet  alive;  ^^ 

Later,  as  worn-out  cattle,  slaughters  them; 

Many  he  robs  of  life,  himself  of  fame. 
He  comes  forth  bloody  from  the  gloomy  woods,  W 

Leaving  them  so,  that  in  a  thousand  years 

They  do  not  grow  again  to  their  first  state.'* 
As  at  the  announcement  of  distressful  harm  ^^ 

The  face  of  him  who  listens  is  disturbed. 

From  whatsoever  side  the  peril  strikes; 
So  saw  I  how  the  other  soul,  that  turned  70 

To  listen,  now  became  disturbed  and  sad 

When  it  had  taken  to  its  mind  these  words. 
What  one  had  said  and  then  the  other's  look  73 

Made  me  desire  to  know  what  were  their  names, 

And  so  I  made  request  of  them  with  prayers. 
Whereon  the  spirit,  which  first  spoke  with  me,  7« 

Began  anew:  "Thou  bidst  me  condescend 


PURGATORIO,  XIV  205 

To  do  for  thee  what  thou  deniest  me ; 
But  since  God  wills  that  in  thee  should  shine  out  79 

Such  grace,  I  will  not  treat  thee  scantily; 

Then  know  Guido  del  Duca  is  my  name. 
My  blood  was  so  with  envy  all  on  fire,  82 

If  I  had  seen  a  man  becoming  glad. 

Thou  wouldst  have  seen  my  face  one  livid  hue. 
Of  that  my  sowing  now  I  reap  such  straw.  85 

0  human  race,  why  settest  thou  the  heart 

On  aught  where  fellowship  must  be  renounced  ? 
This  is  Renier,  of  the  house  of  Calboli  88 

The  glory  and  the  honor,  of  whose  worth 

No  one  has  risen  since  to  be  the  heir. 
Not  his  blood  only  is  despoiled,  between  91 

The  Po,  the  mountains,  Reno  and  the  sea. 

Of  good  that  truth  and  happiness  require ; 
For  it  is  full  within  those  boundaries  94 

Of  poisonous  stocks,  so  that  but  slowly  now 

Could  they  by  cultivation  be  made  less. 
Where  is  good  Lizio,  Arrigo  Mainardi,  97 

Pier  Traversaro,  Gujdo  di  Carpigna? 

Men  of  Romagna,  turned  to  bastards,  when 
Will  a  new  Fabbro  in  Bologna  rise  ?  100 

A  Bernardin  di  Fosco  in  Faenza, 

The  noble  scion  of  a  little  plant? 
Marvel  not,  Tuscan,  if  I  weep,  when  I  103 

Recall  the  time  Guido  da  Prato  lived 

Among  us ;  Ugolino  d '  Azzo,  too, 
Federico  Tignoso  and  his  friends,  106 

The  Traversari,  and  the  Anastagi 

(And  both  the  houses  now  without  an  heir), 
The  ladies  and  the  knights,  the  toils  and  ease  109 

Which  love  and  courtesy  inspired  in  us. 

There  where  the  hearts  have  grown  so  wicked  now. 


206  THE  DIVINE  COMEDY 

0  Brettinoro,  why  dost  thou  not  flee,  112 

Since  they  have  gone,  that  were  thy  family, 

And  many  people,  not  to  share  the  guilt? 
Bagnacaval  does  well  to  get  no  sons,  115 

But  Castrocaro  ill,  and  Conio  worse 

To  trouble  longer  to  beget  such  Counts. 
And  the  Pagani  will  do  well,  when  once  118 

The  Demon  leaves  them ;  but  not  even  so 

That  a  pure  witness  shall  remain  of  them. 
0  Ugolin  de'  Faltolin,  secure  121 

Is  thy  good  name,  for  men  expect  no  more 

One  who,  degenerate,  can  blacken  it. 
But  now  go,  Tuscan,  on  thy  way,  because  124 

Weeping  is  dearer  to  me  far  than  speech, 

So  much  has  our  discourse  distressed  my  mind." 
We  were  aware  that  these  dear  souls  perceived  127 

When  we  went  on ;  so  of  the  way  we  took 

Their  very  silence  made  us  confident. 
And  when  proceeding  we  became  alone,  130 

A  voice  that  seemed  a  thunderbolt  that  cleaves 

The  air,  came  on  toward  us,  uttering: 
** Whoever  findeth  me,  shall  slay  me;"  then  1^3 

It  fled  as  when  the  thunder  dies  away, 

If  suddenly  it  rends  the  cloud  apart. 
And  when  from  this  our  hearing  had  a  truce,  1*^ 

Behold,  the  other,  with  so  loud  a  crash. 

It  seemed  like  thunder  quickly  following: 
*  *  I  am  Aglauros,  who  became  a  stone ; "  13* 

And  to  press  closer  to  the  Poet's  side, 

Backward  I  stepped,  and  no  more  forward  then. 
With  the  air  silent  now  on  every  side,  1*2 

He  said  to  me :  *  *  That  was  the  bit  so  hard, 

That  ought  to  keep  a  man  within  his  bounds ; 
But  ye  will  take  the  bait,  so  that  the  hook  1*5 


PURGATORIO,  XV  207 

Of  the  old  adversary  draws  you  on, 

And  so  the  bridle  and  recall  count  little. 
The  heavens  call  you  and  around  you  turn,  148 

Showing  eternal  beauties  to  your  eyes, 

And  yet  they  gaze  but  downward  to  the  earth; 
Wherefore  He  scourges  you,  who  sees  all  things. ' '  151 


CANTO  XV 

As  much  as  shows,  between  the  day's  third  hour 

And  its  beginning,  of  the  heavenly  sphere 

That  ever  like  a  child  disports  itself. 
So  much  now  seemed  toward  the  evening  4 

To  be  still  left  the  sun  for  his  full  course ; 

There  it  was  vesper-time,  but  midnight  here. 
The  rays  were  striking  us  full  in  the  face,  7 

Because  the  Mountain  had  been  circled  so, 

That  we  were  going  now  straight  to  the  west, 
"When  I  perceived  my  brow  was  weighted  down  10 

With  splendor  far  more  than  it  was  before; 

A  wonder  to  me  were  the  things  unknown. 
Wherefore  I  raised  both  hands  above  my  brows,  13 

And  made  me  a  protection  from  the  sun. 

Thus  to  diminish  the  excess  of  light. 
As  when  from  water  or  a  mirror  leaps  16 

A  ray  in  the  direction  opposite. 

In  manner  like  to  that  in  which  it  fell 
Rebounding  upward,  and  departs  as  far,  1^ 

At  equal  distance  from  the  plummet  line. 

As  both  experience  and  science  show; 
E  'en  so  it  seemed  to  me  that  I  was  now,  22 

By  light  reflected  there  in  front  of  me. 

So  smitten  that  my  sight  was  swift  to  flee. 


208  THE  DIVINE  COMEDY 

** Sweet  Father,  what  is  this,**  said  I,  **from  which         25 
I  can  not  screen  my  sight  so  that  it  may 
Avail  me,  and  which  seems  to  move  toward  us?*' 

**Be  not  amazed,"  he  answered  me,  **if  still  28 

The  family  of  heaven  dazzle  thee; 
It  is  an  angel,  come  to  bid  us  mount. 

Soon  it  will  be,  when  to  behold  these  things  W 

Will  not  be  grievous  to  thee,  but  a  joy, 
As  great  as  in  thy  nature  thou  canst  feel.** 

When  we  came  where  the  blessed  Angel  was,  ** 

With  joyful  voice  he  said:  "Enter  ye  here 
A  stairway  than  the  others  far  less  steep.** 

Already  we  were  mounting,  starting  thence,  *^ 

With  ^'Beati  misericordes' '  sung 
Behind  us,  and  '* Rejoice,  0  conqueror!** 

We  two  alone,  my  Master  and  myself,  *0 

Were  going  upward,  and  thus  journeying 
I  thought  to  gain  advantage  from  his  words, 

And  so  addressed  him  with  my  questioning :  *• 

*  *  What  did  the  spirit  from  Romagna  mean, 
When  speaking  of  *  renouncing  fellowship*?** 

Wherefore  he  said :  "  Of  his  own  greatest  fault  ^^ 

He  knows  the  harm,  and  so  let  none  think  strange 
That  he  reprove  it,  so  men  mourn  it  less. 

Because  your  longings  are  directed  there  *• 

Where  by  companionship  each  part  is  less, 
Envy  inflates  the  bellows  for  your  sighs. 

But  if  the  love  of  that  sphere  which  is  highest  52 

Drew  upward  your  desire,  there  would  not  be 
That  fear  within  your  breast ;  because  the  more 

They  are  in  number,  who  up  there  say  *  ours,  *  55 

So  much  the  more  of  good  doth  each  possess, 
The  more  that  cloister *s  burning  charity.** 

**I  am  more  empty  of  content,**  said  I, 


68 


PURGATORIO,  XV  209 

* '  Than  if  I  had  kept  silence  at  the  first, 

And  still  more  doubt  I  gather  in  my  mind. 
How  can  it  be,  that  good  which  has  been  shared,  61 

Should  make  the  more  possessors  richer  still, 

Than  if  it  were  possessed  by  but  a  few?" 
And  he  to  me :  ' '  Because  thou  f astenest  64 

Thy  mind  upon  the  things  of  earth  alone. 

Thou  gatherest  darkness  from  the  light  itself. 
That  Good,  unbounded  and  ineffable,  67 

Which  is  above,  so  runs  forth  to  meet  love. 

As  to  a  lucid  body  comes  a  ray. 
As  much  of  order  as  it  finds,  so  much  70 

It  gives  itself;  so  that  how  far  soe'er 

Love  spreads,  eternal  worth  beyond  it  grows; 
The  more  they  are  who  set  their  hearts  on  high,  73 

The  more  they  love  well  and  the  more  the  love ; 

And  like  a  mirror  each  gives  back  to  each. 
And  if  my  words  leave  hunger  unappeased,  76 

Thou  shalt  see  Beatrice,  and  she  will  then 

Completely  satisfy  thine  every  wish. 
But  do  thou  strive  that  soon  may  be  erased,  79 

As  are  the  two  already,  the  five  wounds. 

Which  close  in  healing  by  the  pain  they  feel." 
I  fain  had  said:  ^'Thou  satisfiest  me,"  82 

When  I  observed  the  next  round  had  been  reached. 

So  that  my  eager  eyes  silenced  my  words. 
There  seemed  I  of  a  sudden  to  myself  85 

In  an  ecstatic  vision  to  be  rapt, 

And  in  a  temple  to  behold  a  throng; 
A  lady  was  about  to  go  within,  88 

And  said  in  a  sweet  mother's  way:  '*My  son. 

Wherefore  hast  thou  in  this  wise  dealt  with  us  ? 
Behold,  thy  father  and  I  sorrowing  91 

Have  searched  for  thee ; ' '  and  as  she  ceased  to  speak. 


210  THE  DIVINE  COMEDY 

That  which  at  first  appeared,  had  disappeared. 
And  then  there  came  another,  on  whose  cheeks  ^* 

Those  drops  were  flowing  down,  which  grief  distils 

When  anger  at  another  has  sprung  up; 
And  she  said:  **If  thou  art  this  city's  lord,  ^^ 

The  name  of  which  so  set  the  gods  in  strife. 

And  whence  all  science  sparkles  forth,  then  take, 
Pisistratus,  thy  vengeance  of  those  arms  ^^ 

That  dared  embrace  our  daughter. ' '    And  the  lord 

With  look  of  moderation  seemed  benign 
And  mild,  as  in  these  words  he  answered  her:  103 

"What  shall  we  do  to  him  who  is  ill- willed. 

If  he  who  loves  us  is  condemned  by  us?" 
Then  I  saw  people  all  on  fire  with  rage  ^^ 

As  they  with  stones  were  murdering  a  youth, 

And  shouted  to  each  other  loud:  ''Kill,  kill;'* 
And  by  that  death  already  weighted  down,  109 

I  saw  him  bow  himself  toward  the  earth. 

But  of  his  eyes  still  making  gates  to  heaven; 
And  in  such  struggle  prayed  the  Lord  on  high,  112 

With  look  that  unlocks  pity  in  the  heart, 

That  He  forgive  his  persecutors'  sin. 
When  outwardly  my  spirit  had  returned  H* 

To  those  things  which  are  true  outside  of  it, 

I  recognized  my  wanderings  not  false. 
My  Leader,  who  could  see  me  acting  then  H* 

Like  one  who  frees  himself  from  slumber,  said : 

"What  ails  thee?    Thou  canst  not  support  thyself, 
But  hast  been  walking  more  than  half  a  league,  121 

Veiling  thine  eyes  and  with  thy  legs  not  free. 

Like  one  whom  wine  or  sleep  is  bending  down." 
"0  my  sweet  Father,"  said  I,  "if  thou  wilt  1** 

But  listen,  I  will  tell  thee  what  appeared 

When  still  my  legs  were  taken  from  me  so.*' 


PURGATORIO,  XVI  211 

And  he :  *  *  If  thou  didst  have  a  hundred  masks  127 

Before  thy  face,  the  workings  of  thy  mind, 
However  slight,  were  not  concealed  from  me. 

Thy  visions  came  that  thou  have  no  excuse  130 

To  close  thy  heart  to  waters  of  that  peace. 
Which  from  the  eternal  Fountain  are  poured  forth. 

I  did  not  ask:  'What  ails  thee?'  as  does  one  133 

Who  looks  alone  with  that  eye  which  sees  not, 
When  all  inanimate  the  body  lies ; 

I  asked  that  I  might  give  strength  to  thy  feet ;  136 

So  must  the  sluggish  be  spurred  on,  when  slow 
To  use  their  wakefulness  at  its  return." 

As  we  were  walking  through  the  vesper-time,  13^ 

Looking  ahead,  as  far  as  sight  could  reach 
Against  the  late  and  shining  rays,  behold. 

Little  by  little  there  came  on  a  smoke  142 

In  our  direction,  and  as  dark  as  night, 
Nor  was  there  any  place  to  go  from  it ; 

This  took  from  us  our  eyes  and  the  pure  air.  145 


CANTO  XVI 

Darkness  of  hell,  and  of  a  night  deprived 
Of  every  planet,  'neath  a  little  sky. 
As  much  as  can  be,  darkened  with  the  clouds, 

Made  not  a  veil  so  dense  before  my  sight,  4 

As  did  the  smoke  that  was  now  covering  us. 
Nor  was  of  such  harsh  texture  to  my  sense; 

For  it  allowed  not  that  my  eyes  be  open;  7 

Therefore  my  wise  and  trusty  Escort  drew 
Close  to  my  side,  his  shoulder  proffering. 

And  as  a  blind  man  walks  behind  his  guide,  1^ 

In  order  not  to  stray,  or  butt  against 


212  THE  DIVINE  COMEDY 

What  might  bring  harm  to  him,  or  death  perchance ; 
I  went  along  through  air  bitter  and  foul,  15 

And  listened  to  my  Leader,  who  ceased  not 

To  say :  ' '  Take  care ;  be  not  cut  off  from  me. ' ' 
I  could  hear  voices,  and  each  one  appeared  "^^ 

To  be  a  prayer  for  peace  and  mercy  to 

The  Lamb  of  God,  who  taketh  sins  away. 
The  Agnus  Dei  were  their  only  prayers;  1^ 

One  word  there  was  in  all,  their  measure  one, 

So  that  among  them  concord  seemed  complete. 
* '  0  Master,  are  these  spirits,  that  I  hear  T '  22 

I  asked.    And  he  to  me :  ' '  Thou  judgest  well ; 

The  knot  of  anger  they  are  loosening." 
**Now  who  art  thou,  that  cleavest  here  our  smoke,  25 

And  speakest  of  us,  even  as  if  thou 

Wert  measuring  the  time  by  calends  still?" 
Thus  was  it  spoken  by  a  single  voice;  ^ 

Whereon  my  Master  said :  ' '  Reply  to  it, 

And  ask  if  we  go  upward  by  this  way.  * ' 
And  I :  '  *  0  creature,  that  dost  cleanse  thyself,  '1 

That  thou  mayst  go  before  thy  Maker  fair, 

Thou  shalt  hear  wonders,  if  thou  go  with  me." 
It  answered :  "  I  will  follow  thee  as  far  •* 

As  is  allowed ;  if  smoke  prevent  our  seeing, 

Then  hearing  in  its  stead  shall  keep  us  joined." 
Then  I  began :  **  With  that  envelopment  '^ 

Which  death  dissolves,  I  journey  upward ;  hither 

Through  the  infernal  anguish  have  I  come; 
As  God  has  so  included  me  in  grace  ^ 

That  he  has  willed  that  I  should  see  his  court 

In  manner  all  unknown  to  modern  use. 
Conceal  not  who  thou  wast  before  thy  death,  *• 

But  tell  me ;  and,  too,  if  I  rightly  go 

Unto  the  pass ;  thy  words  shall  be  our  escort.  *  * 


PURGATORIO,  XVI  213 

**I  was  a  Lombard;  Marco  was  my  name;  46 

I  knew  the  world,  and  loved  that  worth  at  which 

The  bow  of  every  one  is  now  unbent ; 
For  mounting  upward  thou  dost  go  aright/'  4d 

Thus  he  replied,  and  added :  * '  I  beseech 

That  when  thou  art  above  thou  pray  for  me.'* 
And  I  to  him :  '  *  I  bind  me  by  my  faith  52 

To  do  what  thou  dost  bid  me;  but  I  burst 

With  inward  doubt,  if  I  free  not  my  mind. 
What  first  was  single,  is  now  double  grown  55 

Through  thy  discourse,  which  makes  that  sure  to  me, 

Both  here  and  elsewhere,  which  I  join  to  it. 
The  world  is,  to  be  sure,  as  utterly  58 

Deserted  by  all  virtue  as  thou  say'st. 

And  big  and  covered  with  iniquity; 
But  I  would  pray  that  thou  point  out  the  cause,  61 

That  I  may  see  and  show  it  then  to  others; 

For  one  puts  it  in  heaven,  another  here.'' 
A  deep-drawn  sigh,  that  grief  closed  with  an  ' '  Oh ! "         64 

He  uttered  first ;  then :  ' '  Brother, ' '  he  began, 

''The  world  is  blind,;  thou  cam'st  from  it  in  truth. 
Ye  who  are  living  would  refer  each  cause  67 

To  the  heavens  above  alone,  as  if  they  swept 

All  things  with  them  by  some  necessity. 
If  this  were  so,  in  you  would  be  destroyed  70 

Free-will,  and  then  it  were  not  just  to  feel 

Joy  for  the  good,  and  for  the  evil,  grief. 
Your  movements  heaven  begins ;  I  say  not,  aU,  73 

But  even  if  we  grant  that  it  were  said, 

A  light  is  given  you  for  good  and  ill. 
And  a  free  will,  which,  if  it  bear  the  pain  76 

In  its  first  battles  with  the  heavens,  then 

Will  conquer  utterly,  if  nurtured  well. 
To  greater  force  and  better  nature  ye  79 


214  THE  DIVINE  COMEDY 

Free  subjects  are,  and  that  creates  in  you 

The  mind,  which  heaven  has  not  in  its  charge. 
But  if  the  present  world  has  gone  astray,  82 

Within  you  is  the  cause,  seek  it  within. 

And  I  will  now  be  a  true  spy  of  it. 
It  issues  from  His  hand, — who  loves  it  ere  85 

It  has  its  being, — and  is  playful,  like 

A  little  maiden  with  her  tears  and  smiles, 
The  soul  in  ignorant  simplicity,  88 

Save  that,  as  from  a  joyous  Maker  sprung. 

It  gladly  turns  to  that  which  gives  it  joy. 
Of  a  slight  good  at  first  it  has  a  taste ;  W 

Beguiled  thereby,  it  then  runs  after  it, 

Unless  a  guide  or  curb  should  turn  its  love. 
Whence  it  was  needful  to  make  law  a  curb,  •* 

Needful  to  have  a  king,  who  might  discern 

Of  the  true  city  at  the  least  the  tower. 
The  laws  exist,  but  who  puts  hand  to  them?  ^7 

No  man,  because  the  shepherd  who  leads  on 

May  chew  the  cud,  but  lacks  the  parted  hoof. 
Wherefore  the  people,  who  behold  their  guide  1^^ 

Aim  only  at  that  good,  of  which  themselves 

Are  greedy,  feed  on  that  and  ask  no  more. 
Well  canst  thou  see  that  evil  leadership  1^3 

Has  been  the  cause  that  made  the  world  to  sin, 

Not  Nature  that  in  you  has  grown  corrupt. 
Rome,  that  has  turned  the  world  to  good,  was  wont        ^^ 

To  have  two  sons,  enabling  men  to  see 

Both  paths,  that  of  the  world,  and  God's. 
Now  one  has  quenched  the  other,  and  the  sword  ^^ 

Is  joined  unto  the  crozier;  and  the  two 

Must  of  necessity  go  ill  together : 
For  they  fear  not  each  other,  when  conjoined.  ^1* 

If  thou  believe  not,  see  the  ripened  ear, 


PURGATORIO,  XVI  215 

For  by  its  seed  shall  every  herb  be  known. 
That  land  where  flow  the  Adige  and  the  Po  315 

Was  wont  to  know  true  worth  and  courtesy, 

Ere  Frederick  had  strife;  and  now  it  might 
In  all  security  be  journeyed  through  118 

By  whosoever  out  of  shame  would  shun 

The  discourse  or  the  nearness  of  the  good. 
Three  old  men  are  still  there,  indeed,  in  whom  121 

Old  times  rebuke  the  new ;  they  find  it  long 

Ere  God  remove  them  to  the  better  life : 
Corrado  da  Palazzo,  good  Gherardo,  124 

And  Guido  da  Castello,  better  named 

The  simple  Lombard,  as  the  Frenchmen  say. 
Say  henceforth  that  the  Church  of  Rome  confounds         127 

Two  powers  in  herself,  and  in  the  mire 

Fallen,  defiles  her  burden  and  herself.'' 
' '  My  Marco, ' '  said  I,  '  *  thou  hast  reasoned  well ;  130 

Now  I  discern  why  from  inheritance 

The  sons  of  Levi  were  cut  off;  but,  pray. 
Who  is  Gherardo,  who,  thou  say'st,  remains  133 

As  an  example  of  that  race  extinct, 

And  in  reproval  of  this  barbarous  age?" 
'* Either  thy  words  deceive  me,"  answered  he,  136 

' '  Or  test  me,  since,  despite  thy  Tuscan  speech, 

Thou  seem'st  of  good  Gherardo  to  know  naught. 
I  know  him  by  no  other  name,  unless  139 

His  daughter  Gaia  furnish  one  to  me. 

May  God  be  with  you !    Further  I  come  not. 
Thou  seest  yon  whiteness,  beaming  through  the  smoke,    1^2 

Grow  brighter  now ;  that  is  the  Angel  there ; 

I  must  depart  ere  I  am  seen  of  him. ' ' 
With  this  he  turned,  and  would  not  hear  me  more.  1^5 


216  THE  DIVINE  COMEDY 


CANTO  XVII 

If  ever  in  the  mountains,  reader,  clouds 

Have  shut  thee  in,  through  which  thou  couldst  not  see, 
Except  as  moles  do  through  their  skin,  recall 

How,  when  the  humid  and  dense  vapors  first  * 

Began  to  grow  less  thick,  the  round  sun's  rays 
Come  feebly  through;  then  easy  is  the  task 

Of  thy  imagination  to  behold  ^ 

How  now  at  first  I  saw  again  the  sun, 
Already  sinking  to  his  resting-place. 

So,  following  my  Master's  faithful  steps,  10 

I  issued  forth  from  such  a  cloud  to  rays 
Already  from  the  low  shores  passed  away. 

0  thou  imaginative  power,  that  dost  1* 

At  times  so  snatch  us  from  the  things  without 
One  heeds  not,  though  a  thousand  trumpets  sound. 

Who  moves  thee,  if  the  sense  offer  thee  naught?  ^^ 

Light  moves  thee,  which  in  heaven  by  itself 
Takes  form,  or  by  His  will  who  sends  it  down. 

On  my  imagination  then  was  stamped  ^^ 

The  loveless  wrath  of  her,  whose  form  was  changed 
Into  that  bird's,  who  most  delights  to  sing; 

And  at  the  time  my  mind  was  so  restrained  ^ 

Within  itself,  that  nothing  from  without 
Could  come  that  would  be  taken  in  by  it. 

Then  like  a  rain  in  my  deep  fantasy  ^ 

Came  down  one  crucified,  scornful  and  fierce 
In  aspect,  and  as  such  was  meeting  death. 

The  great  Ahasuerus  stood  near  by;  2® 

Esther,  his  wife,  and  Mordecai  the  just, 
Who  was  so  upright  both  in  word  and  deed. 

And  when  as  of  itself  this  image  burst  ^^ 


PURGATORIO,  XVII  217 

Like  to  a  bubble  when  the  water  fails 

Of  which  it  had  been  made,  before  me  rose 
In  vision,  weeping  bitterly,  a  maid  34 

Who  said  these  words :  ' '  0  Queen,  what  was  the  cause 

That  thou  didst  will  in  anger  to  be  naught  ? 
When,  not  to  lose  Lavinia,  thou  didst  slay  37 

Thyself,  thou  didst  lose  me ;  mother,  'tis  I, 

And  I  mourn  thine,  before  another's  death.'* 
As  when  upon  a  sudden  a  new  light  ^^ 

Strikes  the  closed  eyes,  and  sleep  is  broken  off. 

But  quivers  ere  it  wholly  dissipates, 
So  what  I  was  imagining  fell  down,  ^ 

As  soon  as  I  was  smitten  in  the  face 

By  light  far  more  intense  than  we  know  here. 
I  turned  me  round  to  see  where  I  might  be,  ^^ 

When  a  voice  said :  ' '  'Tis  here  that  one  ascends, ' ' 

And  moved  my  mind  from  every  other  thought. 
It  put  within  my  will  such  eagerness  ^^ 

To  look  upon  the  one  who  spoke  the  words. 

It  will  not  rest  till  it  come  face  to  face. 
As  in  the  sun  whose  light  weighs  down  our  eyes,  ^^ 

And  who  by  his  excess  veils  his  own  form. 

In  such  a  way  my  power  was  failing  there. 
*  *  This  is  a  spirit  come  from  God,  who  shows  55 

The  upward  way  to  us  without  our  prayer. 

And  hides  himself  within  his  very  light. 
He  deals  with  us  as  one  does  with  himself,  5S 

For  whoso,  knowing  need,  waits  to  be  begged. 

Sets  himself  then  malignly  to  refuse. 
According  to  his  bidding  let  us  go,  ^1 

And  strive  to  mount  before  the  darkness  come, 

For  then  we  may  not  till  the  day  returns." 
Thus  spoke  my  Leader,  and  together  now  ^ 

Toward  a  stairway  we  had  turned  to  go ; 


218  THE  DIVINE  COMEDY 

As  soon  as  I  had  reached  the  lowest  step 
I  felt  near  me  as  'twere  a  moving  wing,  67 

A  fanning  of  my  face,  and  heard :  ''Beati 

Pacifici,  from  evil  anger  free.'' 
The  last  rays,  just  before  the  coming  night,  70 

Had  risen  so  high  above  us  that  the  stars 

Began  appearing  now  on  many  sides. 
**My  strength,  why  dost  thou  seem  to  melt  away?"  73 

Thus  to  myself  I  said,  because  I  felt 

The  power  of  my  legs  was  put  in  truce. 
We  had  attained  the  place  where  now  the  stair  76 

Mounted  no  further,  and  were  fixed,  as  when 

A  ship  arriving  has  come  up  to  shore ; 
And  I  stood  listening  a  little  while  79 

If  any  sound  there  were  on  this  new  round ; 

Then,  turning  to  my  Master,  said  to  him: 
*  *  Tell  me,  sweet  Father,  what  offence  it  is  M 

That  in  this  circle  where  we  are  is  purged? 

Although  our  feet  be  stayed,  stay  not  thy  words.*' 
And  he  to  me:  ''The  love  of  good,  come  short  85 

Of  what  it  should  effect,  is  here  restored ; 

The  oar  ill-slackened  here  is  plied  again. 
But  that  thou  understand  more  clearly  yet,  M 

Direct  thy  mind  to  me  and  thou  shalt  pluck 

Some  good  fruit  of  this  tarrying.    My  son, 
Neither  Creator  nor  created  one,"  W 

Thus  he  began,  **was  ever  without  love. 

By  nature  or  by  will;  and  this  thou  knowest. 
The  natural  is  always  without  error;  •* 

The  other  love  may  err  through  evil  end. 

Or  for  its  lack,  or  e'en  excess,  of  strength. 
But  while  directed  to  the  primal  goods,  ^7 

And  in  the  secondary,  moderate, 

It  cannot  be  a  cause  of  ill  delight ; 


PURGATORIO,  XVII  219 

Yet  when  it  turns  to  wrong,  or  with  more  care  100 

Or  less  than  it  should  have,  hastens  toward  good, 

The  creature  works  against  its  Maker  then. 
Hence  thou  mayst  understand  that  love  must  be  103 

The  seed  in  you  of  all  your  worth,  and  too 

Of  every  act  that  merits  punishment. 
Now,  since  Love  cannot  turn  aside  its  face  106 

From  the  well-being  of  its  subject,  so 

All  things  are  safe  from  hatred  of  themselves; 
And,  since  no  being  can  be  deemed  apart,  109 

And  by  itself  existing,  from  the  First, 

Affection  is  cut  off  from  hating  Him. 
It  follows,  if  I  judge  discerningly,  112 

The  harm  one  loves  is  of  his  neighbor ;  now. 

This  love  is  born  in  three  ways  in  your  clay : 
One  man,  if  but  his  neighbor  be  suppressed,  115 

Hopes  to  excell,  and  for  this  solely  longs. 

That  from  his  greatness  he  may  be  brought  low; 
Another  fears  to  lose  his  power,  favor,  118 

Honor  and  fame,  because  of  others'  rise. 

And  grows  so  sad,  he  loves  the  contrary ; 
And  still  another  seems  through  injury  121 

So  angered,  he  grows  greedy  of  revenge; 

And  such  a  one  must  work  another's  harm. 
This  three-fold  love  is  mourned  for  down  below;  124 

Now  I  desire  that  thou  shouldst  learn  of  that 

Which  hastens  to  the  good,  disordinate. 
Each  one  confusedly  thinks  of  a  Good,  127 

In  which  the  mind  may  rest,  and  longs  for  it ; 

And  therefore  each  one  strives  to  come  to  it. 
If  love  be  slow  that  draws  you  to  behold  130 

Or  to  acquire  it,  just  repentance  comes 

And  on  this  cornice  ye  have  pain  for  it. 
Another  good  there  is  that  brings  no  joy ;  133 


136 


139 


220  THE  DIVINE  COMEDY 

It  is  not  joy,  not  the  essential  part, 

That  is  both  fruit  and  root  of  every  good. 
The  love  that  yields  itself  too  much  to  this 

Is  mourned  for  in  three  circles  over  us; 

But  by  what  reasoning  its  parts  are  three 
I  say  not,  that  thou  search  them  for  thyself. ' ' 

CANTO  XVIII 

The  lofty  Teacher  had  concluded  thus 

His  reasoning,  and  was  intent  to  read 

Upon  my  face,  if  I  were  satisfied; 
And  I,  already  driven  by  new  thirst,  * 

Was  silent  outwardly,  saying  within: 

** Perchance  my  too  much  asking  burdens  him.'* 
But  that  true  Father,  who  perceived  the  wish  7 

That  timidly  had  not  disclosed  itself, 

By  speaking  gave  me  courage  now  to  speak. 
Wherefore  I  said:  ''My  Master,  in  thy  light  1<> 

My  sight  is  quickened  so,  I  clearly  see 

Whatever  thy  discourse  imports  or  shows; 
But  I  beseech  thee.  Father  sweet  and  dear,  1* 

Expound  the  love  to  which  thou  dost  reduce 

Every  good  action  and  its  opposite." 
"Direct,"  said  he,  ''toward  me  the  sharpened  sight         ^^ 

Of  intellect,  and  to  thee  shall  be  clear 

The  error  of  the  blind  who  will  be  guides. 
The  soul  which  is  created  quick  to  love  1* 

Moves  easily  to  all  that  pleases  it 

Soon  as  by  pleasure  it  is  roused  to  act. 
Your  apprehension  draws  of  what  is  true  ^ 

An  image,  and  displays  it  in  your  mind, 

So  that  it  makes  the  mind  turn  unto  it. 
And  if  thus  turned  it  bend  itself  thereto,  ^ 


PURGATORIO,  XVIII  221 

This  bending  is  its  love ;  'tis  Nature 's  self, 

That  is  through  pleasure  newly  bound  in  you. 
For  even  as  the  fire  is  upward  borne  28 

By  reason  of  its  form,  bom  to  aspire 

"Where  it  abides  the  most  in  its  own  matter, 
So  does  the  captive  mind  move  to  desire,  31 

Which  is  the  spirit's  motion,  and  ne'er  rests 

Until  the  thing  beloved  makes  it  rejoice. 
Now  canst  thou  see  how  deeply  hidden  is  34 

The  truth  from  all  those  people  who  aver 

That  in  itself  all  love  is  to  be  praised; 
Because,  perchance,  the  matter  that  it  seeks  37 

Seems  always  good ;  but  yet  not  every  seal 

Is  good,  however  good  may  be  the  wax." 
**Thy  words  and  my  wit  following  after  them,  40 

Reveal  to  me  what  love  is,"  answered  I. 

* '  But  this  has  made  my  mind  conceive  more  doubt ; 
If  from  without  love  is  thus  offered  us,  43 

And  on  no  other  footing  moves  the  soul, 

Go  right  or  wrong,  the  merit  is  not  hers. ' ' 
And  he  to  me:  '*As  far  as  reason  sees,  ^ 

That  I  may  tell;  what  is  beyond,  expect 

To  learn  of  Beatrice;  that  work  is  faith's. 
Every  substantial  form,  that  is  distinct  4^ 

From  matter  and  united  with  it,  has 

Specific  virtue  gathered  in  itself. 
Which,  if  not  operating,  is  not  felt,  52 

Nor  ever  shows  itself,  but  in  effects. 

As  life  within  a  plant  by  the  green  leaves. 
Therefore  the  source  whence  comes  the  intelligence  ^5 

Of  first  cognitions,  man  knows  not,  nor  whence 

The  linking  for  the  first  things  we  desire. 
Which  is  in  us  as  in  the  bee  the  zeal  58 

To  make  the  honey;  and  this  primal  wish 


222  THE  DIVINE  COMEDY 

Admits  of  no  desert  of  praise  or  blame. 
That  every  other  wish  conform  to  this,  ^^ 

The  virtue  that  gives  counsel  is  inborn 

In  you  to  hold  the  threshold  of  assent. 
This  is  the  principle  whence  is  derived  •* 

The  measure  of  your  merit,  as  it  shall 

Receive  and  winnow  good  and  evil  loves. 
Those  who  by  reasoning  have  searched  the  depths  ^^ 

Learned  of  this  liberty  that  is  innate, 

And  so  gave  moral  science  to  the  world. 
So,  though  we  grant  that  of  necessity  '^^ 

All  love  that  burns  within  you  should  arise, 

Within  you  too  is  power  to  restrain. 
This  noble  virtue  Beatrice  understands  78 

As  freedom  of  the  will ;  so  see  that  thou 

Remember  it,  if  she  should  speak  thereof." 
The  moon  slow-moving  toward  the  midnight  hour  76 

Was  making  now  the  stars  seem  few  to  us. 

Herself  in  form  a  bucket  all  on  fire. 
She  moved  against  the  heavenly  course  on  paths  ^9 

The  Roman  sees  the  setting  sun  inflame 

Between  Sardinia  and  Corsica. 
The  gentle  shade,  through  whom  Pietola 

Has  greater  fame  than  Mantua  herself. 

Had  laid  the  burden  down  that  I  imposed; 
And  I,  who  had  been  garnering  his  words 

Open  and  plain  about  my  questionings, 

Stood  like  a  man  who  wanders  drowsily. 
But  suddenly  was  taken  from  me  there 

All  drowsiness,  by  people  who  behind 

Our  backs  had  come  upon  us  in  their  round. 
As  once  Ismenus  and  Asopus  saw  W 

Upon  their  banks  at  night  fury  and  rout, 

If  but  the  Thebans  needed  Bacchus'  aid, 


88 


85 


88 


PURGATORIO,  XVIII  223 

So  on  this  circle  swept  upon  their  way,  84 

By  what  I  saw  of  them  as  they  came  on, 

Those  whom  good  will  and  righteous  love  bestride. 
They  were  upon  us  soon,  because  they  all  87 

In  that  great  throng  were  moving  at  a  run; 

And  two  in  front  were  shouting,  as  they  wept: 
''And  Mary  ran  unto  the  hills  in  haste ;'*  100 

''Caesar  to  bring  Ilerda  'neath  the  yoke 

Did  sting  Marseilles  and  hasten  into  Spain.'' 
' '  Swift,  swift,  that  no  time  may  be  lost  because  103 

Of  little  love, ' '  the  others  cried  behind, 

"And  zeal  in  good  may  make  grace  once  more  green.'' 
"0  people  in  whom  sharpened  fervor  now  106 

Eedeems  perchance  neglect  and  the  delay 

Ye  practised  through  lukewarmness  in  good  deeds. 
This  one  who  lives, — and  surely  I  lie  not, —  109 

Would  fain  go  up  when  sunlight  comes  again; 

So  tell  us  where  the  opening  is  near." 
These  words  were  spoken  by  my  Leader;  then  112 

One  of  those  spirits  said  to  him :  ' '  Come  thou 

Behind  us,  and  so  thou  shalt  find  the  gap. 
We  are  so  full  of  eagerness  to  move,  115 

We  can  not  tarry;  therefore,  pray,  forgive. 

If  thou  esteem  this  justice  churlishness. 
San  Zeno's  abbot  in  Verona  once  118 

Was  I,  beneath  good  Barbarossa's  rule, 

Of  whom  in  sorrow  Milan  still  is  talking. 
And  such  a  one  with  one  foot  in  the  grave  121 

Shall  for  that  monastery  soon  lament. 

And  be  in  sadness  for  his  power  there; 
Because  his  son,  evil  in  all  his  frame,  124 

And  worse  in  mind,  and  too  of  evil  birth. 

In  place  of  its  true  shepherd  he  put  there." 
I  know  not  whether  he  said  more,  or  ceased,  127 


133 


224  THE  DIVINE  COMEDY 

So  far  already  had  he  run  ahead; 

But  this  I  heard  and  gladly  have  retained. 
And  he  who  was  my  help  in  every  need  1^0 

Said  to  me  then : ' '  Now  turn  thee  to  this  side ; 

See  two  of  them  that  come,  biting  at  sloth. ' ' 
They  followed  all  the  others,  as  they  said: 

''The  people  for  whose  sake  the  sea  was  parted 

Had  died  before  the  Jordan  saw  its  heirs;*' 
And  thus :  ' '  That  folk,  that  with  Anchises '  son  136 

Did  not  endure  the  toil  unto  the  end. 

Gave  themselves  up  to  life  inglorious." 
And  when  those  shades  were  parted  now  so  far  139 

From  us,  that  they  no  longer  could  be  seen, 

A  new  thought  rose  within  my  mind,  from  which 
Still  others,  many  and  diverse,  sprang  up ;  1*2 

And  I  so  strayed  from  one  thought  to  the  next, 

That  I  had  closed  my  eyes  through  wandering, 
And  so  transmuted  thinking  into  dream.  1*5 


CANTO  XIX 

It  was  the  hour  when,  vanquished  by  the  earth 
Or  Saturn's  rays  betimes,  the  heat  of  day 
Can  warm  no  more  the  coldness  of  the  moon ; 

When  geomancers  see  before  the  dawn  * 

Their  Greater  Fortune  in  the  eastern  sky 
Rise  by  a  way  that  stays  but  briefly  dusk; 

I  saw  in  dream  a  woman,  stammering,  ^ 

With  squinting  eyes,  and  crooked  on  her  feet, 
Her  hands  deformed,  her  features  colorless. 

I  gazed  at  her  and  as  the  sunshine  brings  10 

Comfort  to  chilly  limbs  that  night  weighs  down, 
So  did  my  look  make  nimble  then  her  tongue, 


PURGATORIO,  XIX 


13 


And  thereupon  in  but  a  little  time 

Made  her  all  straight,  and  to  her  pallid  face 
Did  give  the  color  love  would  look  for  there. 

And  as  she  had  her  power  of  speech  thus  freed,  1^ 

Then  she  began  to  sing  in  such  a  way, 
I  hardly  could  have  turned  my  mind  from  her. 

'  *  I  am, ' '  she  sang,  "  I  am  the  Siren  sweet,  18 

That  in  mid-sea  bewitch  the  mariners. 
So  full  am  I  of  pleasure  to  be  heard. 

I  turned  Ulysses  from  his  wandering  way  22 

With  song  of  mine ;  and  he  who  with  me  grows 
Familiar,  rarely  goes,  I  please  him  so. ' ' 

Her  mouth  was  not  yet  closed,  when  there  appeared        25 
A  lady  of  a  saintly  mien,  prepared 
Beside  me  to  bring  that  one  to  dismay. 

' '  0  Virgil,  Virgil,  who  is  this  ? ' '  said  she  28 

Disdainfully ;  and  he  approached  with  eyes 
Fixed  then  upon  the  modest  one  alone. 

She  seized  the  other,  and  opening  her  in  front,  31 

Rending  the  clothes,  showed  me  her  belly;  then 
I  woke  because  of  stench  that  came  from  it. 

I  turned  my  eyes,  and  the  good  Master  said :  34 

' '  At  least  three  times  I  called  thee ;  rise  and  come, 
And  let  us  find  the  gate  where  thou  mayst  enter. ' ' 

I  rose ;  the  circles  of  the  holy  Mount  37 

Already  were  all  full  of  the  high  day. 
And  we  went  on,  the  new  sun  at  our  backs. 

While  following  him  I  bore  my  brow  like  one  40 

Who  has  it  heavy  laden  with  his  thought, 
And  makes  himself  a  half  arch  of  a  bridge, 

When  I  heard  said :  ' '  Come  ye,  the  passage-way  ^3 

Is  here,"  and  in  a  way  so  mild  and  kind 
As  we  ne'er  hear  within  this  mortal  pale. 

With  wings  outspread,  that  seemed  as  of  a  swan,  46 


226  THE  DIVINE  COMEDY 

He,  who  had  spoken  thus,  directed  us 

Upward  between  two  walls  of  the  hard  rock. 
He  moved  his  pinions  then,  and  fanning  us,  ^ 

Proclaimed  qui  lugent  to  be  of  the  blest. 

For  they  shall  have  their  hearts  in  comfort  rich. 
*'What  ails  thee,  that  thou  lookest  only  down  52 

Upon  the  ground?"  my  Guide  began  to  say. 

When  we  had  passed  a  little  the  Angel's  place. 
**With  such  suspicion  I  am  made  to  go  55 

By  a  new  vision  that  so  draws  me  down, 

I  cannot  rid  me  of  the  thought  of  it. ' ' 
* '  Hast  thou  then  seen, ' '  said  he,  ' '  that  ancient  witch         58 

Who  is  alone  lamented  for  above? 

Hast  thou  beheld  how  man  is  freed  from  her? 
Let  it  suffice ;  strike  with  thy  heels  the  earth ;  ®1 

Thine  eyes  turn  upward  to  the  lure,  which  He, 

The  Eternal  King,  whirls  onward  with  the  spheres. ' ' 
As  when  the  falcon  looks,  first  at  his  feet,  W 

Then  turns  him  at  the  cry,  and  stretches  forth 

With  longing  for  the  food  that  draws  him  there, 
Such  I  became,  and  such,  as  far  as  reached  ^^ 

The  cleft  to  make  a  way  for  him  who  mounts, 

I  made  the  ascent  to  where  the  round  begins. 
When  I  on  this  fifth  cornice  came  forth  free,  70 

I  saw  upon  it  those  who  were  in  tears. 

And  lay  there  with  their  faces  to  the  earth. 
**Adhaesit  pavimento  anima  mea/^  '^ 

I  heard  them  uttering  with  such  deep  sighs. 

The  words  were  hardly  to  be  understood. 
**0  ye  elect  of  God,  whose  sufferings  75 

Both  hope  and  justice  make  less  hard  to  bear, 

Direct  us,  pray,  unto  the  high  ascents.'* 
*  *  If  safe  from  lying  prostrate  ye  have  come,  ^^ 

And  would  in  briefest  time  find  out  the  way, 


PURGATORIO,  XIX  227 


E  'er  to  the  outside  let  your  right  hands  be. ' ' 
Thus  prayed  the  Poet,  and  was  answered  thus  82 

A  little  way  in  front  of  us;  and  I 

Observed  what  else  was  hidden  as  he  spoke; 
And  then  I  turned  my  eyes  unto  my  Lord ;  85 

"Whereon  with  a  glad  sign  he  gave  assent 

To  what  the  look  of  my  desire  had  craved. 
"When  I  could  with  myself  do  as  I  would,  88 

I  drew  near  where  that  creature  lay,  whose  words 

Had  first  attracted  me,  and  said  to  him: 
*  *  0  spirit,  in  whom  grief  is  ripening  91 

That  without  which  one  cannot  turn  to  God, 

Suspend  a  while  for  me  thy  greater  care. 
"Who  wast  thou,  and  why  have  ye  thus  your  backs  94 

Turned  upward,  tell  me,  if  thou  wouldst  that  I 

Procure  thee  aught  there  whence  I  came  alive." 
And  he  to  me :  ''Why  heaven  turns  our  backs  97 

Toward  itself,  thou  yet  shalt  know,  but  first, 

Scias  quod  ego  fui  successor  Petri. 
'Twixt  Sestri  and  Chiaveri  there  comes  down  100 

A  stream  that  is  beautiful,  and  of  its  name 

The  title  of  my  race  makes  its  chief  boast. 
A  month  and  little  more  I  felt  his  load  103 

Who  keeps  the  ample  mantle  from  the  mire; 

Such  weight,  all  other  burdens  are  but  feathers. 
I  was  converted  late,  alas !  but  when  106 

I  had  become  the  Roman  Shepherd,  then 

I  made  discovery  of  how  false  life  is. 
I  saw  that  there  the  heart  came  not  to  rest,  109 

And  could  not  mount  up  higher  in  that  life ; 

So  love  of  this  was  kindled  in  my  soul. 
Up  to  that  moment  I  had  been  a  soul  112 

Wretched,  apart  from  God,  all  avarice; 

Now  as  thou  seest  I  am  punished  here. 


121 


124 


228  THE  DIVINE  COMEDY 

What  avarice  effects  is  here  made  known  115 

In  the  purgation  of  converted  souls; 

More  bitter  punishment  the  Mount  has  not. 
Even  as  there  our  eye  was  not  raised  up  118 

To  things  on  high,  but  fixed  on  those  of  earth, 

So  justice  here  has  sunk  it  to  the  earth. 
Even  as  avarice  there  quenched  our  love 

Of  every  good,  and  hence  our  work  was  lost, 

So  justice  here  is  holding  us  in  bonds. 
Bound  as  we  are  and  captive,  hand  and  foot; 

As  long  as  the  just  Lord  shall  please,  so  long 

Shall  we  stay  here,  outstretched  and  motionless. ' ' 
I  had  knelt  down,  and  had  in  mind  to  speak ;  127 

But  when  I  was  beginning,  he  perceived, 

Merely  by  listening,  my  reverence, 
And  said:  "What  reason  is  it  bends  thee  down?"  ^30 

And  I :  * '  By  reason  of  your  dignity 

My  conscience  stung  me  that  I  stood  erect.** 
*' Straighten  thy  legs,  my  brother,"  answered  he,  l^^ 

* '  And  rise ;  for  likewise  with  thee  and  the  rest 

I  am  a  fellow  servant  to  One  Power. 
If  ever  thou  didst  understand  the  words  136 

Of  Holy  Gospel:  *Neque  nubent/  then 

Thou  mayst  know  well  why  I  am  speaking  so. 
Now  go  thy  way ;  I  bid  thee  stay  no  more ;  139 

Thy  tarrying  is  obstructive  to  my  tears, 

With  which  I  ripen  that  which  thou  hast  said. 
Yonder  I  have  a  niece,  Alagia  named,  1*2 

Good  in  herself,  provided  that  our  house 

By  its  example  cause  her  not  to  sin ; 
And  she  alone  is  left  me  on  the  earth. ' '  145 


PURGATORIO,  XX  229 


CANTO  XX 

A  WILL  strives  ill  against  a  better  one ; 

Wherefore  against  my  pleasure,  to  please  Mm, 

I  drew  the  sponge  unfilled  from  out  the  water. 
I  moved  on ;  and  my  Leader  moved  along  4 

The  unobstructed  places  by  the  rock, 

As  on  a  wall  we  graze  the  battlements. 
For  they,  through  whose  eyes  here  fell  drop  by  drop         7 

The  evil  that  possesses  all  the  world. 

On  the  other  side  approached  too  near  the  edge. 
A  malediction  on  thee,  old  she-wolf,  10 

That  more  than  all  the  other  beasts  hast  prey. 

For  this  thine  endless  hunger,  cavernous ! 

0  Heaven,  by  whose  revolution  men  13 
Believe  conditions  here  below  are  changed, 

When  will  he  come,  through  whom  she  shall  depart  ? 
We  went  along  with  slow  and  scanty  steps,  16 

And  I  intent  upon  the  shades  I  heard 
Lamenting  and  bewailing  piteously; 

1  heard  by  chance  in  front  of  us  a  voice  1^ 
Cry  out :  ' '  Sweet  Mary ! "  as  it  were  with  tears, 

Like  to  a  woman  in  the  pangs  of  birth; 
And  then  there  followed  this :  ' '  Thou  wast  so  poor,  22 

As  men  may  judge  of  by  that  hostelry. 

Where  thou  didst  lay  thy  holy  burden  down.*' 
And  following,  this:  '*0  good  Fabricius,  25 

Virtue  with  poverty  thou  didst  prefer 

Above  great  riches  with  iniquity.'' 
So  pleasing  were  these  words  to  me,  I  went  28 

Still  further  on,  that  I  might  learn  to  know 

The  spirit  from  whom  they  had  seemed  to  come. 
It  had  not  ceased  to  speak,  and  now  it  told  31 


230  THE  DIVINE  COMEDY 

How  Nicholas  gave  largess  to  the  maids, 

That  they  in  honor  might  conduct  their  youth. 
**0  soul  that  speakest  so  much  good,"  said  I,  34 

**Pray,  tell  me  who  thou  wast,  and  why  alone 

Thou  dost  renew  these  words  of  worthy  praise  ? 
Thy  speech  shall  not  be  without  recompense,  87 

If  I  return  to  finish  the  short  way 

Of  that  life  that  is  flying  to  its  goal." 
And  he :'  *  If  I  do  tell  thee,  it  is  not  40 

Because  I  seek  for  comfort  from  the  earth, 

But  for  that  grace,  that  shines  in  thee  ere  death. 
I  was  the  root  whence  sprang  that  evil  plant,  43 

Which  casts  such  shade  o'er  all  the  Christian  land 

That  good  fruit  is  but  rarely  plucked  from  it. 
But  if  Douai,  Lille,  Ghent  and  Bruges  had  ^ 

The  power,  vengeance  would  be  taken  soon; 

And  I  implore  it  of  the  Judge  of  all. 
Hugh  Capet  was  my  name  on  earth ;  of  me  ^ 

Are  bom  the  Philips  and  the  Louises, 

By  whom  in  recent  days  France  has  been  ruled. 
I  was  the  son  of  a  Parisian  butcher ;  62 

And  when  the  ancient  kings  had  come  to  end, 

Save  only  one  who  clad  himself  in  gray, 
I  foiind  that  I  held  fast  in  hand  the  reins  55 

Of  government  within  the  realm,  and  power 

Of  new-got  lands,  and  had  such  store  of  friends, 
That  to  the  crown  thus  widowed,  my  son's  head  58 

Was  then  promoted,  and  it  is  with  him 

Began  the  consecrated  bones  of  those. 
So  long  as  the  great  dowry  of  Provence  •! 

Had  not  yet  taken  from  my  race  its  shame. 

It  was  of  little  power,  but  did  no  ill. 
Then  it  began  with  force  and  lying  fraud  W 

Its  plundering;  and  later,  for  amends. 


PURGATORIO,  XX  231 

Took  Normandy,  Ponthieu  and  Gascony. 

Charles  came  to  Italy,  and,  for  amends,  C7 

Made  Conradin  his  victim ;  and  then  next 
Thrust  Thomas  back  to  heaven,  for  amends. 

I  see  a  time,  not  far  off  from  today,  70 

Which  shall  draw  forth  another  Charles  from  France 
To  make  both  him  and  his  still  better  known. 

Unarmed  he  comes,  alone,  and  with  the  lance  73 

That  Judas  jousted  with;  and  thrusts  it  so, 
That  he  shall  make  the  paunch  of  Florence  burst. 

Thence  he  shall  gain,  not  land,  but  sin  and  shame,  76 

For  him  so  much  the  heavier,  as  he 
The  lighter  has  esteemed  such  injury. 

The  other,  who  comes  captive  from  a  ship,  79 

I  see  make  his  own  daughter  merchandise. 
Haggling  as  corsairs  do  with  other  slaves. 

What  canst  thou,  avarice,  do  more  with  us,  82 

When  thou  so  drawest  my  kindred  to  thyself, 
That  it  cares  not  for  its  own  flesh  and  blood  ? 

That  past  and  future  ill  may  both  seem  less,  85 

I  see  to  Alagna  coiqae  the  Fleur-de-lys, 
And  in  His  vicar's  person  Christ  made  captive. 

I  see  Him  to  be  mocked  a  second  time ;  88 

I  see  the  vinegar  and  gall  renewed. 
And  Him  'twixt  living  robbers  put  to  death. 

I  see  in  the  new  Pilate  cruelty  ^^ 

Not  satisfied  with  this,  but,  without  law. 
Entering  the  Temple  with  his  greedy  sails. 

When  shall  I,  0  my  Lord,  rejoice  to  see  ^^ 

Thy  vengeance  wrought,  which,  being  hidden,  makes 
The  anger  in  Thy  secret  counsel  sweet? 

What  of  the  Holy  Spirit's  only  Bride  97 

I  was  first  saying,  and  which  made  thee  turn 
In  my  direction  for  some  gloss  of  it, 


232  THE  DIVINE  COMEDY 


100 


Was  as  an  answer  to  our  prayers,  as  long 

As  the  day  lasts ;  but  when  the  night  has  come, 

Contrary  sound  we  utter  in  its  stead. 
Then  we  repeat  Pygmalion's  story,  how  103 

His  hungering  for  gold  insatiate 

Made  him  a  traitor,  thief  and  parricide ; 
And  avaricious  Midas '  misery,  106 

Which  followed  on  the  prayer  his  greed  had  made, 

And  which  deserves  immortal  ridicule; 
The  foolish  Achan  each  one  calls  to  mind,  109 

And  how  he  stole  the  spoils,  so  that  the  wrath 

Of  Joshua  seems  still  to  bite  him  here ; 
Sapphira  and  her  husband  we  accuse;  112 

We  praise  the  kicks  that  Heliodorus  had; 

And  Polymnestor's  infamy  sweeps  on. 
The  Mountain  round,  for  Polydorus '  death ;  115 

Here,  last  of  all,  we  cry  out :  *  Crassus,  pray. 

Tell  us,  thou  knowest  it,  what  is  the  taste  of  gold  ? ' 
Sometimes  we  speak,  one  loud,  another  low,  118 

As  our  affection  spurs  our  utterance 

Either  to  greater  or  to  lesser  pace ; 
So  in  the  good  we  speak  of  here  by  day,  121 

I  was  not  then  alone ;  but  here  near  by 

No  other  person  lifted  up  his  voice." 
We  had  already  started  on  from  him,  124 

And  now  were  striving  to  go  on  our  way 

As  far  as  was  permitted  to  our  power. 
When  I  perceived  a  trembling  of  the  Mount,  127 

As  of  a  thing  in  falling;  and  a  chill 

Seized  me,  as  it  does  one  who  goes  to  death. 
Certainly  Delos  was  not  shaken  so  130 

Before  Latona  made  her  nest  in  it 

To  bring  forth  there  the  two  eyes  of  the  heavens. 
Then  there  began  on  every  side  a  cry,  133 


PURGATORIO,  XXI 

Such  that  the  Master  drew  toward  me,  and  said: 

* '  Fear  not,  as  long  as  I  shall  be  thy  guide. ' ' 
^^  Gloria  in  excelsis  Deo/'  all  were  saying,  136 

By  what  I  understood  from  those  near  by, 

Whose  cry  I  had  been  able  to  make  out; 
All  motionless  and  in  suspense  we  stood,  139 

Like  to  the  shepherds  who  first  heard  the  song. 

Until  the  trembling  ceased,  and  then  it  stopped. 
Then  we  resumed  our  holy  journeying,  142 

Watching  the  shades  that  lay  there  on  the  ground, 

Returned  already  to  their  wonted  plaint. 
Never  with  such  assault  did  ignorance  1^5 

Make  me  desirous  to  inform  myself, 

If  memory  is  true  to  me  in  this. 
As  I  seemed  then  subjected  to  in  thought;  148 

But,  for  our  haste,  I  did  not  dare  to  ask, 

And  by  myself  I  could  see  nothing  there; 
So  I  went  on,  timid  and  deep  in  thought.  151 


CANTO  XXI 

The  innate  thirst  that  is  ne'er  satisfied, 

Save  with  the  water  asked  for  as  a  boon 

By  the  poor  woman  of  Samaria, 
Distressed  me,  and  I  felt  the  spur  of  haste,  4 

Following  my  Leader  on  the  obstructed  way, 

And  the  just  vengeauce  made  me  share  the  pain ; 
When  lo,  as  Luke  writes  for  us  how  the  Christ,  7 

Already  risen  from  the  sepulchral  cave. 

Appeared  unto  the  two  upon  the  way, 
A  shade  appeared  to  us,  behind  us  first,  10 

Watching  the  crowd  that  lay  there  at  its  feet ; 

Nor  had  we  noticed  it  until  it  spoke, 


234  THE  DIVINE  COMEDY 

Saying:  "My  brothers,  may  God  give  you  peace!*'  13 

We  turned  at  once,  and  Virgil  made  such  sign 

As  was  befitting,  and  beginning  said: 
**Into  the  council  of  the  blest  mayst  thou  1^ 

Be  brought  in  peace,  by  that  true  court  which  sends 

Me  back  into  eternal  banishment." 
''What?"  said  he,  as  we  went  on  actively,  1® 

"If  ye  are  shades  that  God  deigns  not  above, 

Who  has  come  with  you  by  His  stairs  so  far  ? ' ' 
My  Teacher  answered :  "  If  thou  seest  the  marks,  22 

Which  this  one  bears  and  which  the  Angel  drew. 

Thou  knowest  that  with  the  good  'tis  meet  he  reign. 
But  since  that  one,  who  spins  both  day  and  night,  25 

Had  not  yet  ceased  to  draw  the  flax  for  him. 

Which  Clotho  lays  and  packs  for  every  one. 
His  soul,  which  is  the  sister  of  us  both,  28 

Ascending,  could  not  come  alone,  because 

Not  seeing  in  our  manner;  therefore  I 
Was  drawn  forth  from  the  ample  jaws  of  Hell  31 

To  be  his  guide,  and  I  shall  guide  him  on 

As  far  as  what  I  teach  has  power  to  lead. 
But  tell  us,  if  thou  knowest,  why  just  now  3* 

The  Mountain  trembles  so,  and  why  all  seemed 

E'en  down  to  its  soft  base,  to  give  one  cry?" 
His  questions  aimed  so  through  the  needle 's  eye  ^^ 

Of  my  desire,  that  simply  with  the  hope 

My  thirst  became  less  eager  to  be  quenched. 
That  one  began :  ' '  This  Mountain 's  holy  laws  *0 

Know  naught  that  is  without  due  ordering, 

Or  is  outside  the  bounds  of  common  use. 
This  place  is  free  from  every  change ;  of  this,  *3 

That  Heaven  receives  its  own  unto  itself, 

Occasion  may  be  here,  but  of  naught  else. 
Wherefore  no  rain,  nor  hail,  nor  snow,  nor  dew,  *^ 


PURGATORIO,  XXI  235 

Nor  hoar-frost  ever  falls  here  higher  up 

Than  the  small  stairway  of  the  three  short  steps. 
Nor  are  there  clouds,  or  dense  or  thin,  that  come,  ^9 

Nor  lightning ;  Thaumas '  daughter  comes  not  here, 

Who  often  changes  place  in  yonder  skies. 
Dry  vapor  rises  from  below  no  higher  52 

Than  to  the  topmost  step  of  which  I  spoke, 

And  where  the  feet  of  Peter's  vicar  rest. 
It  may  be  much  or  little  lower  down  55 

It  quakes ;  but  with  wind  hidden  in  the  earth 

I  know  not  how,  it  never  trembled  here. 
It  quakes  here  when  a  soul  perceives  itself  58 

All  cleansed,  so  that  it  rises  or  begins 

To  mount  on  high,  and  such  shouts  follow  it. 
Of  being  cleansed  the  will  alone  gives  proof,  61 

Which  comes  upon  the  soul  now  free  to  change 

Its  home,  and  with  volition  pleases  it. 
It  wills  indeed  before,  but  that  desire  6* 

Forbids,  which  by  God's  justice  seeks  the  pain. 

As  formerly  the  sin,  and  checks  the  will. 
And  I,  who  in  this  suffering  have  lain  67 

Five  hundred  years  and  more,  only  just  now 

Felt  my  will  free  to  seek  a  better  place. 
Therefore  the  earthquake  came,  which  thou  didst  feel,      70 

And  pious  souls  throughout  the  Mount  gave  praise 

To  God ;  and  may  He  send  them  soon  above ! ' ' 
Those  were  his  words  to  us ;  and  as  delight  73 

In  drinking  is  as  great  as  was  the  thirst, 

I  cannot  say  how  much  he  did  me  good. 
And  the  wise  Leader :  ' '  Now  I  see  the  net  76 

Which  holds  you  here,  and  how  one  is  unsnared, 

Whence  comes  the  earthquake,  and  the  common  joy. 
May  it  please  thee  that  I  learn  now  who  thou  wast ;  79 

And  may  thy  words  make  clear  to  me  why  thou 


236  THE  DIVINE  COMEDY 

Wast  lying  here  so  many  centuries. '^ 
**It  was  the  time  when  the  good  Titus'  arms,  82 

Helped  by  the  King  Most  High,  avenged  the  wounds, 

Whence  issued  forth  the  blood  that  Judas  sold. 
That  I,''  this  spirit  answered,  ''lived  on  earth,  85 

With  most  enduring  and  most  honoring  name, 

Great  in  renown,  but  not  as  yet  with  faith. 
The  spirit  of  my  voice  was  then  so  sweet,  88 

Rome  drew  me  from  Toulouse  to  her,  and  there 

I  earned  the  myrtle  crown  that  decked  my  brows. 
Statius  they  name  me  yonder  still ;  of  Thebes,  W 

And  then  of  great  Achilles  was  my  song. 

But  with  this  load  I  fell  beside  the  way. 
Seed  to  my  ardor  were  the  sparks,  that  were  W 

So  warm  within  me,  of  that  flame  divine 

From  which  more  than  a  thousand  take  their  fire; 
I  speak  of  the  Aeneid,  which  to  me  ^ 

Was  mother,  and  was  nurse  in  poesy; 

Without  it  I  had  not  a  drachma's  weight. 
And  if  I  could  have  been  alive  on  earth  100 

When  Virgil  lived,  I  would  consent  to  owe 

A  sun  more  than  I  do  for  my  release." 
These  words  turned  Virgil  toward  me  with  a  look  103 

Which  in  its  stillness  said  to  me :  *  *  Be  still ! ' ' 

But  virtue  cannot  do  all  that  it  will; 
Laughter  and  tears  are  such  quick  followers  106 

On  passion,  in  which  each  has  had  its  source, 

That  those  most  true  obey  the  will  the  least. 
I  only  smiled,  as  one  who  makes  a  sign ;  109 

Whereat  the  shade  spoke  not,  but  looked  at  me 

Into  my  eyes,  where  soul  is  steadiest. 
**So  may  thy  toil  attain  its  end  of  good,"  112 

Said  he,  ''why  did  thy  countenance  but  now 

Display  to  me  the  flashing  of  a  smile  t  * ' 


PURGATORIO,  XXII  237 


Now  am  I  caught,  as  'twere,  on  either  side ;  115 

One  keeps  me  silent,  and  the  other  begs 
That  I  may  speak ;  I  sigh ;  my  Master  knows 

My  thought,  and  says  to  me :  "  Fear  not  to  speak,  US 

But  speak  to  him,  and  give  him  answer  now 
To  what  he  asks  with  so  great  eagerness." 

Wherefore  I  said:  "Perchance  thou  marvelest,  121 

0  ancient  spirit,  that  I  should  have  laughed ; 
But  may  a  greater  wonder  seize  thy  mind ! 

This  one  who  guides  on  high  my  eyes  is  he,  124 

That  Virgil,  from  whom  thou  didst  first  derive 
Thy  power  to  sing  of  men  and  of  the  gods. 

If  thou  didst  think  that  aught  else  made  me  laugh,         127 
Leave  such  a  thought  untrue,  and,  pray,  believe. 
It  was  the  words  that  thou  didst  speak  of  him." 

Already  he  was  bending  to  embrace  130 

My  Teacher 's  knees ;  but  he  said :  ' '  Brother,  no, 
Thou  art  a  shade,  and  lookest  on  a  shade." 

Eising  he  said :  ' '  Now  thou  canst  know  how  great  1^3 

The  love  is  that  so  warms  my  heart  for  thee, 
That  I  can  lose  from  mind  our  emptiness. 

And  treat  our  shades  as  though  a  solid  thing."  136 


CANTO  XXII 

Already  was  the  Angel  left  behind, 
The  Angel,  who,  erasing  from  my  face 
A  stroke,  had  turned  our  steps  to  this  sixth  round ; 

And  those,  whose  longing  is  for  righteousness. 
He  had  proclaimed  Beati,  and  his  words 
Had  closed  with  sitiunt,  without  the  rest. 

Lighter  than  through  the  other  passages 
I  was  advancing  with  no  effort  now, 


238  THE  DIVINE  COMEDY 

Following  upward  the  swift  spirits'  lead, 

When  Virgil  spoke,  beginning:  **Love  that  bums  10 

From  Virtue's  kindling  ever  kindles  more. 
If  but  its  flame  be  manifest  without ; 

So,  from  that  hour  when  Juvenal  came  down  1' 

To  us  within  Hell's  limbo,  and  made  known 
To  me  thy  heart's  affection,  my  good  will 

Toward  thee  was  such,  that  more  did  never  bind  ^^ 

The  heart  unto  a  person  not  yet  seen ; 
And  so  these  stairs  will  now  seem  short  to  me. 

But  tell  me,  and  forgive  me  as  a  friend,  1^> 

If  confidence  let  loose  my  rein  too  much, 
And  as  a  friend  henceforward  talk  with  me: 

How  was  it  possible  that  avarice  22 

Found  place  within  thy  breast  amid  such  store 
Of  wisdom  as  thy  diligence  brought  there?" 

These  words  at  first  moved  Statins  somewhat  25 

To  laughter,  but  he  answered  presently : 
' '  Thine  every  word  is  a  dear  proof  of  love. 

'Tis  true  that  many  times  appear  such  things  28 

As  give  false  matter  to  our  doubts,  because 
The  reasons  that  are  true  lie  there  concealed. 

Thy  question  shows  me  that  thou  dost  believe  ^^ 

That  I  was  avaricious  in  yon  life, 
Perchance  because  of  that  round  where  I  was. 

Now  know  that  avarice  was  too  far  off  34 

From  me,  and  this  excess  of  difference 
Thousands  of  moons  have  seen  me  punished  for  j 

And  if  I  had  not  set  my  care  aright,  87 

When  I  observed  where  thy  words  did  break  forth, 
As  if  indignant  with  our  human  nature: 

*  Through  what  dost  thou  not  drive,  accursed  thirst  *0 

Of  gold,  the  appetite  of  mortal  ment' 
I  should  now,  rolling,  feel  the  dismal  jousts. 


PURGATORIO,  XXII  239 

Then  I  perceived  how,  when  they  spend,  our  hands        43 

Could  spread  their  wings  too  wide,  and  I  repented 

As  well  of  this  as  of  my  other  sins. 
How  many  when  they  rise  will  have  shorn  locks,  46 

Through  ignorance,  which  lets  them  not  repent 

Of  such  a  sin  in  life,  not  even  at  last ! 
Know  that  a  fault,  whose  opposition  is  4^ 

Direct  against  a  sin,  repelling  it. 

With  that  together  here  must  dry  its  green. 
Therefore,  if  I  have  been  among  that  folk  52 

Lamenting  avarice,  to  cleanse  my  soul, 

It  thus  befell  me  for  its  opposite." 
*'Now  when  thy  song  was  of  the  cruel  arms  55 

Borne  to  Jocasta's  two-fold  sorrowing," 

Then  said  the  singer  of  bucolic  lays, 
*'By  what  thou  touchest  there  with  Clio's  aid,  58 

Thou  wast  not  yet  made  faithful  by  the  faith. 

Without  which  man's  good  works  are  not  enough. 
If  this  be  so,  what  was  the  sun,  or  what  61 

The  candles  that  dispelled  thy  darkness  so 

That  thou  set  sail  behind  the  Fisherman?" 
And  he  to  him :  ' '  Thou  at  the  first  didst  send  64 

Me  to  Parnassus  to  drink  in  its  caves. 

And  afterwards  thou  gav'st  me  light  to  God. 
Thou  didst  like  one,  who  walking  in  the  night  ^7 

Carries  a  light  behind,  not  for  himself. 

But  making  wise  those  that  do  follow  him, 
When  thou  saidst :  '  Now  the  world  renews  itself ;  70 

Justice  returns,  and  the  first  days  of  men. 

And  from  the  heavens  new  progeny  descends.' 
Through  thee  I  was  a  poet,  and  through  thee  73 

A  Christian ;  but  that  thou  mayst  see  what  now 

I  draw,  my  hand  shall  lay  the  color  on. 
Already  had  the  whole  world  been  prepared  76 


240  THE  DIVINE  COMEDY 

For  true  belief,  the  seed  of  which  was  sown 

By  the  eternal  kingdom's  messengers; 
And  thine  own  saying,  just  now  spoken  of,  79 

So  harmonized  with  the  new  preachers'  words, 

It  soon  became  my  wont  to  visit  them. 
And  later  they  appeared  such  holy  men,  82 

That,  when  Domitian  persecuted  them. 

Their  lamentations  did  not  lack  my  tears. 
As  long  as  after  that  I  was  on  earth  85 

I  succored  them;  their  upright  practices 

Made  me  despise  all  other  sects;  but  ere 
I  in  my  poem  had  led  on  the  Greeks  88 

Unto  the  streams  of  Thebes,  I  was  baptized ; 

But  out  of  fear  Christian  in  secrecy 
I  long  made  outward  show  of  paganism;  W 

And  this  lukewarmness  kept  me  circling  on, 

More  than  four  centuries  on  that  fourth  round. 
Thou,  therefore,  who  hast  raised  the  covering,  W 

Which  hid  from  me  the  good  of  which  I  speak, 

While  yet  in  the  ascent  we  have  the  time, 
Tell  me  where  now  our  ancient  Terence  is,  ^7 

Caecilius,  Plautus,  Varro,  if  thou  know'st; 

Tell  me  if  they  are  damned,  and  in  what  place.'* 
*  *  They,  Persius  too,  and  I,  and  many  more, ' '  100 

My  Leader  answered  him,  *'are  with  that  Greek 

The  Muses  suckled  as  none  ever  since, 
In  the  dark  prison's  first  encircling  space.  ^03 

There  oftentimes  our  talk  is  of  the  mount, 

With  those  who  nursed  us  ever  on  its  slopes. 
We  have  Euripides  and  Antiphon,  106 

Simonides  and  Agathon,  and  Greeks 

Yet  many  more,  whose  brows  were  laurel-crowned; 
And  of  thy  people  there  Antigone,  10® 

Argia  and  Deiphyle  are  seen ; 


PURGATORIO,  XXII  241 

Ismene,  still  as  sad  as  when  on  earth; 
And  she  who  showed  Langia ;  Thetis,  too ;  112 

Deidamia  with  her  sisters,  and 

She  who  was  daughter  of  Tiresias.'* 
Both  of  the  poets  now  had  ceased  to  speak,  115 

Intent  anew  on  looking  to  all  sides, 

"When  they  were  free  from  climbing  and  from  walls ; 
And  now  the  first  four  maidens  of  the  day  118 

Remained  behind,  while  at  the  pole  the  fifth 

Directed  upward  still  its  blazing  point; 
My  Leader  said:  "I  think  it  best  that  we  121 

Turn  our  right  shoulders  to  the  outer  edge, 

Circling  the  Mount  as  we  are  wont  to  do. ' ' 
Thus  at  that  point  usage  became  our  guide ;  124 

And  we  went  on  our  way  with  much  less  doubt 

For  the  assenting  of  that  worthy  soul. 
They  went  along  in  front,  and  I,  alone  127 

Behind  them,  listened  to  the  words  they  spoke. 

Which  gave  me  teaching  in  the  art  of  verse. 
But  soon  their  pleasant  talk  was  broken  off  130 

"When  we  came  on  a  tree  right  in  the  way. 

With  apples  on  it,  sweet  to  smell  and  good. 
And  as  a  fir-tree  tapers  to  the  top  133 

From  branch  to  branch,  so  that  one  downward  grew, 

I  think  so  that  no  one  might  go  beyond. 
On  that  side  where  our  path  was  thus  cut  off  136 

Clear  water  streamed  down  from  the  lofty  rock, 

And  spread  itself,  in  falling,  o  'er  the  leaves. 
When  the  two  poets  had  drawn  near  the  tree,  139 

A  voice  that  issued  from  within  the  leaves 

Cried  out :  ' '  Of  this  food  ye  shall  suffer  dearth. ' ' 
Then  said :  ' '  Mary  was  thinking  more  of  how  1*2 

The  wedding  might  be  honorably  complete, 

Than  of  her  mouth,  which  answers  now  for  you ; 


242  THE  DIVINE  COMEDY 

The  Roman  dames  of  old  for  all  their  drink  1^5 

Were  satisfied  with  water;  Daniel 
Despised  his  food  and  learned  how  to  be  wise; 

The  primal  age  was  beautiful  as  gold,  1^8 

And  made  with  hunger  acorns  savory, 
And  made  with  thirst  nectar  of  every  stream ; 

Honey  and  locusts  were  the  viands  that  151 

Nourished  the  Baptist  in  the  wilderness; 
Wherefore  his  name  is  glorious,  and  so  great 

As  in  the  Gospel  is  revealed  to  you. ' '  154 


CANTO  XXIII 

While  thus  through  the  green  foliage  I  peered, 

As  he  is  wont  to  do,  who  wastes  his  life 

After  the  little  birds,  he  who  was  more 
Than  father  to  me  said:  *'My  son,  come  now,  * 

Because  the  time  that  is  allotted  us, 

Must  be  apportioned  to  a  better  use." 
I  turned  my  face,  and  not  less  readily  ^ 

My  steps,  toward  the  Sages,  whose  discourse 

Was  such  as  made  my  going  of  no  cost. 
And  lo,  a  sound  of  song  through  tears  was  heard :  ^^ 

*^  Labia  mea,  Domine/'  that  gave 

Both  joy  and  pain  to  hear,  such  were  its  notes. 
** Sweet  Father,  what  is  that,"  thus  I  began,  13 

*  *  That  I  am  hearing  1 ' '    And  he  said :  *  *  The  shades, 

That  going  loose  the  knot  of  debt,  perchance." 
As  thoughtful  pilgrims  do,  who  overtake  1^ 

People  unknown  to  them  upon  their  way. 

And  turn  to  look  at  them,  but  tarry  not ; 
Behind  us  came,  and  with  their  quicker  pace  1® 

Went  by,  glancing  at  us  and  wondering. 


PURGATORIO,  XXIII  243 

A  throng  of  souls,  all  silent  and  devout. 

Each  one  had  dark,  deep-sunken  eyes,  a  face  22 

Of  pallor,  and  was  so  emaciate, 
The  skin  gave  but  the  form  of  bones  beneath. 

I  do  not  think  that  Brysichthon  was  25 

So  to  a  very  skin  withered  away, 
When  in  his  starving  he  was  most  afraid. 

I  said  within  me  as  I  thought :  ' '  Behold  28 

The  people  that  did  lose  Jerusalem, 
"When  Mary  struck  her  beak  into  her  son. ' ' 

The  sockets  of  their  eyes  seemed  rings  without  31 

Their  gems;  he  who  reads  OMO  in  man's  face 
Would  surely  there  have  recognized  the  M. 

Who  would  believe  an  apple's  fragrance  so  34 

Could  govern  things  by  waking  a  desire. 
Or  water 's  odor,  if  he  knew  not  how  ? 

I  wondered  then  what  made  them  hunger  so,  37 

What  were  the  cause,  not  manifest  as  yet. 
Of  their  great  leanness  and  their  wretched  scurf, 

When  lo,  from  'neath  the  hollow  of  the  head  40 

A  shade  had  turned  its  eyes  toward  me ;  then  stared, 
And  cried  aloud:  ''What  grace  to  me  is  this!" 

Never  should  I  have  known  him  by  his  face ;  43 

But  in  his  voice  there  was  revealed  to  me 
That  which  within  the  look  was  overcome. 

That  spark  rekindled  wholly  in  my  mind  46 

My  knowledge  of  the  features  here  so  changed. 
And  now  I  knew  again  Forese's  face. 

' '  Oh,  pray  give  not  thy  thought  to  the  dry  scab  49 

That  gives  its  color  to  my  skin,"  he  begged, 
"Nor  to  my  lack  of  flesh,  but  tell  me  truth 

About  thyself,  and  tell  me  who  they  are,  52 

The  two  souls  yonder  that  escort  thee  here; 
Do  not  delay,  I  pray,  to  speak  to  me." 


244  THE  DIVINE  COMEDY 

**Thy  face,"  I  answered  him,  ''which  at  thy  death  55 

I  wept  for  once,  gives  me  as  grievous  cause 
For  mourning  now,  seeing  it  so  transformed. 

But  tell  me,  in  God's  name,  what  strips  you  so;  58 

Nor  make  me  speak  while  I  am  wondering ; 
Full  of  another  wish,  one  must  speak  ill/* 

And  he  to  me :  ' '  In  the  eternal  plan  61 

Power  descends  upon  the  stream  and  tree 
Left  there  behind,  through  which  I  grow  so  lean. 

These  people,  who  now  singing  as  they  weep,  ^ 

Have  followed  appetite  beyond  due  bounds, 
Are  here  in  thirst  and  hunger  sanctified. 

The  odor  of  the  apple  and  the  spray  ^^ 

That  scatters  as  it  falls  upon  the  green. 
Kindle  in  us  desire  to  eat  and  drink. 

And  not  once  only  as  we  go  our  round  70 

Upon  this  level  is  our  pain  renewed, — 
Our  pain,  I  say,  but  should  say,  our  relief; — 

Because  that  longing  leads  us  to  the  tree,  73 

Which  had  led  Christ  in  happiness  to  say, 
'  Eli, '  when  He  released  us  with  His  blood. ' ' 

And  I  to  him :  ' '  Forese,  from  that  day  76 

When  thou  didst  change  world  to  a  better  life, 
Five  years  have  not  revolved  up  to  this  time. 

If  first  the  power  in  thee  still  to  sin  79 

Had  ended,  ere  the  hour  had  supervened, 
Which  with  good  grief  weds  us  anew  to  God, 

How  is  it  thou  didst  come  up  hither?    Still  82 

Down  there  below  I  thought  to  find  thee,  where 
Time  is  restored  by  time.*'    And  he  to  me: 

**My  Nella  with  her  weeping  that  burst  forth,  ^ 

Is  she  who  brought  me  here  so  soon  to  drink 
Of  the  sweet  wormwood  of  these  torturings; 

For  with  her  prayers  devout  and  with  her  sighs  ^ 


PURGATORIO,  XXIII  245 

She  led  me  forth  from  where  the  spirits  wait, 
And  set  me  free  from  all  the  other  rounds. 

So  much  more  dear  and  precious  unto  God  ^1 

Is  my  dear  widow,  whom  I  fondly  loved, 
As  she  the  more  is  lonely  in  good  works; 

For  the  Barbagia  of  Sardinia  ^4 

Shows  in  its  women  far  more  modesty 
Than  that  Barbagia  in  which  she  was  left 

By  me.    What  wilt  thou  have  me  say,  sweet  brother?        97 
A  future  time  is  now  within  my  sight. 
To  which  this  hour  shall  not  be  very  old. 

When  from  the  pulpit  it  shall  be  forbidden  100 

The  dames  of  Florence,  brazen-faced,  to  go, 
Showing  their  bosoms  with  the  breasts  exposed. 

What  women  ever  were  in  Barbary,  103 

What  Saracens,  that  needed  discipline 
Of  soul,  or  otherwise,  to  make  them  dress? 

And  if  the  shameless  ones  but  knew  of  that  106 

Which  heaven  speedily  prepares  for  them, 
Their  mouths  would  be  wide  open  now  to  howl; 

For,  if  the  foresight  here  deceive  me  not,  109 

They  shall  be  sad  before  the  dowTi  shall  come 
To  his  cheeks,  whom  the  lullaby  now  soothes. 

Pray,  brother,  hide  thyself  no  more  from  me ;  112 

Thou  seest  that  not  only  I,  but  all 
These  people  gaze  where  thou  dost  veil  the  sun. ' ' 

Wherefore  I  said :  ' '  If  thou  bring  back  to  mind,  US 

What  thou  with  me  and  I  with  thee  have  been, 
The  present  memory  will  be  grievous  still. 

From  that  life,  he  who  goes  in  front  of  me  118 

Turned  me  the  other  day,  when  to  you  here 
Showed  herself  round  the  sister  of  that  one ; ' ' 

I  pointed  to  the  sun.    '*He  through  the  deep  121 

Of  night  has  led  me  from  the  truly  dead. 


246  THE  DIVINE  COMEDY 

In  this  true  flesh  that  follows  after  him. 
Thence  have  his  comforts  brought  me  upward,  e'er         124 

Ascending,  circling  as  I  rise,  the  Mount, 

Which  makes  you  straight,  made  crooked  in  the  world. 
He  says  that  he  shall  bear  me  company  127 

Till  I  have  come  where  Beatrice  will  be; 

And  I  must  needs  remain  without  him  there. 
Virgil, ' '  to  whom  I  pointed,  '  *  is  the  one  130 

Who  tells  me  this ;  this  other  is  that  shade. 

For  whom  your  kingdom  quaked  in  every  slope, 
When  it  just  now  released  him  from  itself.*'  133 


CANTO  XXIV 

Our  talk  made  not  our  steps  more  slow,  nor  did 
Our  steps  our  talk,  but  speaking,  we  went  on 
As  freely  as  a  ship  with  a  good  wind. 

The  shades,  which  seemed  things  dead  a  second  time,         * 
Were  taking  through  the  sockets  of  their  eyes 
A  wondering  gaze  at  me,  living,  they  knew. 

And  I,  continuing  my  words,  then  said:  7 

**  Perchance  he  is  more  slow  in  going  up 
Than  else  he  would  be  for  another's  sake. 

But  tell  me,  if  thou  knowest,  Piccarda's  place;  10 

Tell  me  if  I  see  any  one  to  note 
Among  these  people,  who  so  gaze  at  me." 

**My  sister,  who  was  beautiful  and  good,  !• 

I  know  not  which  the  more,  is  now  in  bliss, 
On  high  Olympus  crowned  triumphantly." 

Thus  spoke  he  first ;  and  then :  *  *  Here  naught  forbids        !• 
The  naming  of  each  one,  our  semblance  is 
Because  of  abstinence  so  dried  away. 

This  one,"  pointing  him  out,  "is  Bonagiunta,  !• 


PURGATORIO,  XXIV  247 

Bonagiunta  of  Lucca ;  and  that  face 

Beyond  him,  more  pricked  through  than  all  the  rest, 
Is  his,  who  held  in  arms  the  Holy  Church ;  22 

He  was  of  Tours,  and  purges  by  his  fast 

Bolsena's  eels  and  the  Vemaccia  wine." 
And  many  others  named  he,  one  by  one,  25 

And  with  the  naming,  all  appeared  content, 

So  that  thereat  I  saw  not  one  dark  look. 
I  saw  how,  in  their  hunger,  bit  the  air  28 

Ubaldin  della  Pila,  and  Boniface, 

Who  shepherded  so  many  with  the  rook; 
I  saw  Messer  Marchese,  who  had  once  31 

Time,  with  less  thirst,  for  drinking  at  Forli, 

And,  even  so,  never  felt  sated  there. 
But  as  one  does,  who  looks  and  then  esteems  34 

One  man  beyond  the  rest,  so  did  I  him 

Of  Lucca,  who  appeared  most  to  desire 
To  know  me.    He  was  murmuring,  and  I  heard  37 

What  seemed  '  ^  Gentucca, ' '  where  he  felt  the  wound 

Of  justice,  that  so  plucks  them.     Then  I  said: 
'  *  0  soul,  that  seemest  so  to  wish  to  speak  40 

With  me,  so  do  that  I  may  understand. 

And  with  thy  speaking  satisfy  us  both." 
**  There  is  a  woman  born,  who  wears  not  yet  43 

The  veil,"  thus  he  began,  ''and  who  shall  make 

My  city,  though  men  blame  it,  dear  to  thee. 
Thou  shalt  go  hence  with  this  my  prophecy ;  46 

And  if  thou  errest  from  my  murmuring. 

The  truth  of  things  shall  make  it  to  thee  clear. 
But  tell  me,  am  I  looking  at  that  one,  49 

Who  drew  the  new  rhymes  forth,  beginning  thus: 

^Ladies,  who  have  intelligence  of  love'f 
And  I  to  him:  "I  am  one  who,  when  Love  52 

Inspires  me,  note,  and  in  the  way  that  he 


248  THE  DIVINE  COMEDY 

Dictates  within,  I  give  the  outward  form." 
*  *  0  brother,  now  I  see, ' '  said  he,  * '  the  knot  55 

That,  from  the  sweet  new  style  I  hear,  kept  back 

The  Notary,  Guittone,  and  myself. 
I  see  distinctly  how  your  pens  go  on,  M 

Thus  closely  following  the  dictator's  lead. 

Which  certainly  came  not  to  pass  with  ours; 
And  he  who  sets  himself  to  further  search,  ^1 

Finds  no  more  difference  between  the  styles.*' 

Then  he  was  silent,  as  if  satisfied. 
And  as  the  birds  that  winter  by  the  Nile  ^ 

Sometimes  will  make  a  company  in  air. 

Then  fly  in  greater  haste,  going  in  file. 
So  all  the  people  that  were  gathered  there,  ^^ 

Turning  their  faces,  went  with  quicker  steps, 

Light  through  their  leanness  and  through  their  desire. 
And  as  a  man  weary  with  running,  lets  ^^ 

His  fellows  go  ahead,  and  walks  himself. 

Until  the  panting  of  his  chest  be  eased, 
So  now  Forese  let  this  holy  flock  78 

Pass  on,  and  came  behind  with  me,  and  said: 

**When  shall  it  be  that  I  see  thee  again?" 
**I  know  not,"  answered  I,  **my  length  of  life,  76 

Yet  my  returning  will  not  be  so  soon. 

But  that  desire  is  earlier  at  the  shore ; 
Because  the  place,  where  I  was  set  to  live,  79 

From  day  to  day  strips  itself  more  of  good. 

And  seems  appointed  to  a  grievous  fall." 
**Now  go,"  said  he,  ''for  that  one  most  at  fault  ^ 

I  see  a  beast  draw  downward  at  its  tail 

Toward  that  vale,  where  faults  are  never  cleansed. 
The  beast  goes  on  more  swiftly  with  each  step  85 

Increasing  ever,  till  it  dashes  him. 

And  leaves  his  body  wretchedly  undone. 


PURGATORIO,  XXIV  249 

Those  wheels  have  now  not  far  to  turn, ' '  said  he,  88 

Raising  his  eyes  to  heaven,  * '  ere  that  be  clear, 
Which  words  of  mine  no  further  may  declare. 

Remain  thou  now  behind,  for  in  this  realm  91 

Time  is  so  precious,  that  I  lose  too  much, 
Going  on  thus  at  even  pace  with  thee." 

As  sometimes  at  a  gallop  issues  forth  ^^ 

A  horseman  from  a  riding  troop,  and  goes 
To  win  the  honor  of  the  first  attack. 

So  parted  he  from  me  with  greater  strides;  ^7 

And  I  remained  upon  the  way  with  those, 
Who  had  been  such  great  marshals  in  the  world. 

When  he  had  gone  so  far  in  front  of  us,  100 

That  my  eyes  were  engaged  in  following  him. 
As  was  my  mind  in  following  his  words, 

Another  apple-tree  appeared,  with  boughs  103 

Heavy  with  fruit  and  green,  and  not  far  off, 
Because  I  only  then  turned  to  that  side. 

I  saw  beneath  it  people  lift  their  hands,  106 

And  cry  out  toward  the  leaves  I  know  not  what. 
Like  greedy  children,  who  beseech  in  vain, 

And  he  who  is  besought,  will  answer  not;  109 

But,  that  their  longing  may  be  made  more  keen, 
He  holds  high  up  their  wish,  and  hides  it  not. 

Then  they  departed,  as  if  undeceived;  112 

And  thereupon  we  came  to  the  great  tree, 
Which  so  rejects  the  many  prayers  and  tears. 

*  *  Pass  onward  without  drawing  near  to  it ;  115 

A  tree,  which  once  was  eaten  of  by  Eve, 
Is  higher  up ;  this  plant  was  raised  from  it.  *  * 

Thus  'mid  the  branches  spoke  I  know  not  who;  H^ 

So  Virgil,  Statins  and  myself  drew  close. 
And  by  the  rising  side  went  further  on. 

''Bethink  you,''  said  he,  ''of  the  accursed  ones,  121 


250  THE  DIVINE  COMEDY 

Formed  in  the  clouds,  who,  gorged  with  food  and  drink, 

Fought  against  Theseus  with  their  double  breasts; 
And  of  the  Hebrews,  who  at  drinking  were  124 

So  soft,  that  Gideon  spurned  their  company, 

When  he  went  down  the  hills  toward  Midian.** 
To  one  of  the  two  margins  we  kept  close,  127 

And  passed,  hearing  of  sins  of  gluttony. 

That  had  their  sequel  of  distressful  gains. 
Then  with  more  room  upon  the  lonely  way  1*® 

Some  thousand  steps  and  more  had  borne  us  on, 

Each  one  in  contemplation,  speaking  not. 
''What  think  ye  of,  ye  three  who  go  alone V*  133 

A  voice  said  suddenly ;  whereat  I  started, 

As  would  a  frightened,  timid  animal. 
I  raised  my  head  to  see  who  it  might  be ;  13* 

And  never  in  a  furnace  were  there  seen 

Metals  or  glass  so  glowing  or  so  red 
As  One  I  saw,  who  said :  ' '  If  ye  are  pleased  1^* 

To  make  the  ascent,  here  there  is  need  to  turn; 

Here  he  ascends,  who  goes  in  search  of  peace.** 
His  aspect  had  bereft  me  of  my  sight;  1*2 

Therefore  I  turned  back  to  my  Teacher's  steps, 

And  walked  as  one,  who  follows  what  he  hears. 
As  when,  the  herald  of  the  dawn,  the  breeze  1*5 

Of  May  stirs  gently  with  its  fragrant  breath, 

Impregnate  with  the  sweet  of  herb  and  flower ; 
So  felt  I  on  the  middle  of  my  brow  1*8 

A  wind  that  blew,  and  I  could  feel  the  plumes 

That  brought  the  fragrance  of  ambrosia: 
And  I  heard  said:  ''Blessed  are  they,  whom  grace  1^1 

Has  so  illumined,  that  the  love  of  taste 

Kindles  within  them  not  too  great  desire, 
And  who  do  ever  thirst  for  what  is  just.*'  ^^ 


PURGATORIO,  XXV  251 


CANTO  XXV 

It  was  an  hour  when  the  ascent  allowed 
Of  no  delay,  because  the  sun  had  left 
The  noon-day  circle  to  the  Bull,  and  night 

To  the  Scorpion.    Wherefore  as  does  the  man  4 

Who  halts  not,  but  goes  on,  whate  'er  appear. 
If  he  be  goaded  by  necessity; 

Thus  did  we  enter  by  the  narrow  way,  7 

And  one  before  another  took  the  stairs, 
That  by  their  narrowness  part  those  who  mount. 

And  as  the  little  stork,  that  lifts  its  wings  10 

In  its  desire  to  fly,  and  ventures  not 
To  quit  the  nest,  and  lets  them  fall  again ; 

Such  I  was,  with  desire,  kindled  and  quenched,  13 

Of  questioning,  to  motion  come  at  last. 
Such  as  he  makes,  whose  lips  prepare  to  speak. 

Then  my  sweet  Father,  though  our  pace  was  quick,  16 

Did  not  refrain,  but  spoke :  * '  Discharge  the  bow 
Of  speech,  which  thbu  hast  drawn  up  to  the  iron. ' ' 

Then  confidently  opening  my  mouth,  19 

Thus  I  began:  ''How  can  one  grow  lean  there 
Where  one  feels  not  the  need  of  nourishment  ? ' ' 

*'If  thou  recall  how  Meleager's  life  22 

Consumed  with  the  consuming  of  the  brand. 
This  thing  were  not  so  hard  to  thee, ' '  he  said ; 

''If  thou  shouldst  think  how  with  your  quivering  25 

Your  image  in  the  mirror  quivers  too. 
That  would  seem  easy  that  now  seems  so  hard. 

That  thou  mayst  come  to  rest  within  thy  will,  28 

Lo,  Statins  here,  and  him  I  call  and  pray. 
That  he  be  now  a  healer  of  thy  wounds. ' ' 

"  If  in  thy  presence  I  unfold  to  him  31 


252  THE  DIVINE  COMEDY 

The  eternal  view,"  Statius  replied,  ''that  I 

May  not  deny  thee  shall  be  my  excuse." 
Then  he  began:  ''Son,  if  thy  mind  regard  34 

My  words  and  take  them  in,  they  will  be  light 

Upon  thy  questioning.    The  perfect  blood, 
Which  never  is  drunk  up  by  thirsty  veins  37 

And  so  remains  behind,  like  to  the  food 

Which  thou  removest  from  the  table,  takes 
Within  the  heart  virtue  informative  ^ 

Of  all  the  human  members,  being  that 

Which  courses  through  the  veins  to  change  to  them ; 
Again  digested,  flows  to  parts  whereof  ^ 

'Tis  comelier  to  be  silent  than  to  speak; 

Thence  it  distils  upon  another's  blood 
In  Nature's  vessel;  both  are  there  received,  ^ 

Disposed,  one  to  be  passive,  one  to  act. 

Due  to  the  perfect  place  whence  it  has  sprung ; 
And  thus  conjoined,  the  one  begins  to  work,  *^ 

Coagulating  first,  then  giving  life 

To  that  which  it  had  formed  to  work  upon. 
The  active  virtue  thus  made  soul, — like  that  ^^ 

In  plants,  but  so  far  different,  as  this 

Is  on  its  way,  and  that  has  reached  its  port, — 
So  works  at  length,  that  now  it  moves  and  feels,  55 

Like  a  sea-fungus ;  and  begins  to  make 

Organs  for  powers  of  which  it  is  the  germ. 
The  virtue  come  from  the  begetter's  heart,  ^ 

My  son,  will  now  unfold,  and  now  extend, 

When  on  all  members  Nature  is  intent; 
But  how  from  animal  it  should  become  ^^ 

A  child,  thou  seest  not  yet ;  this  is  a  point 

Which  led  astray  a  wiser  man  than  thou ; 
For  in  his  teaching  he  made  separate  ^* 

From  soul  potential  intellect,  because 


PURGATORIO,  XXV  253 


He  saw  no  organ  taken  up  by  it. 
Open  thy  breast  unto  the  coming  truth;  67 

Know  that  as  soon  as  in  the  embryo 

The  brain  has  been  perfected  in  its  parts, 
The  Primal  Motor  turns  to  it  in  joy  70 

Over  such  art  of  Nature's,  and  inbreathes 

A  spirit  that  is  new,  replete  with  power, 
Which  draws  all  that  which  it  finds  active  there  ^^ 

To  its  own  substance,  making  all  one  soul, 

"Which  lives  and  feels,  revolving  in  itself. 
That  thou  mayst  wonder  less  at  what  I  say,  76 

Note  how  the  sun's  heat  is  turned  into  wine. 

When  joined  to  moisture  that  the  vine  has  given. 
When  Lachesis  has  no  more  thread,  this  soul  79 

Is  let  loose  from  the  flesh,  and  bears  away 

Potentially  the  human  and  divine; 
Then  all  the  other  faculties  are  mute;  82 

But  memory,  intelligence  and  will. 

In  action  keener  far  than  e'er  before. 
With  unarrested  movement,  by  itself  85 

Strangely  it  falls  to  one  of  the  two  shores. 

And  there  first  knows  its  ways.    As  soon  as  there 
It  has  been  circumscribed  in  its  due  place,  88 

There  radiates  the  virtue  formative. 

In  form  and  mass  as  in  the  living  members. 
And  as  the  air,  when  it  is  full  of  rain,  91 

Becomes  adorned  with  divers  colorings, 

Reflected  in  it  through  another's  rays, 
So  here  the  neighboring  air  will  shape  itself  9* 

Into  that  form,  which  by  its  virtue  now 

The  soul  that  stops  there  like  a  seal  imprints ; 
And  afterwards,  like  to  the  little  flame  97 

Following  the  fire,  wherever  it  may  move, 

So  its  new  form  follows  the  spirit's  ways. 


254  THE  DIVINE  COMEDY 

Since  after  that  its  semblance  is  therefrom,  100 

*Tis  called  a  shade ;  and  forms  the  organs  then 
Of  every  sense,  even  to  that  of  sight. 

Thence  we  have  speech,  and  thence  our  laughter ;  thence  1^3 
We  have  our  utterance  of  tears  and  sighs. 
Which  thou  upon  the  Mountain  mayst  have  heard. 

As  our  desires  and  our  affections  else  106 

Impress  themselves  on  us,  the  shade  takes  shape; 
This  is  the  cause  of  what  thou  wonderest  at. ' ' 

And  now  the  final  circle  had  been  reached  109 

By  us,  and  we  had  turned  toward  the  right. 
And  had  become  intent  on  other  care ; 

At  this  point  flames  are  shot  forth  from  the  bank,  112 

While  upward  from  this  cornice  breathes  a  blast 
Throwing  them  back,  freeing  a  path  from  them; 

So  one  by  one  we  were  constrained  to  go  115 

Along  the  open  side,  while  here  I  feared 
The  fire,  and  there  I  feared  I  might  fall  down. 

My  Leader  said:  ** Along  this  place  one  must  H^ 

Hold  tightly  drawn  the  bridle  of  the  eyes, 
Because  for  little  one  might  go  astray.  * ' 

**Summae  Dens  clementiae*'  they  sang  121 

Within  the  bosom  of  the  mighty  glow, 
Which  made  me  not  less  eager  now  to  turn ; 

And  I  saw  spirits  moving  through  the  flame,  124 

Wherefore  I  looked  at  them  and  at  my  steps, 
From  time  to  time  dividing  thus  my  gaze. 

When  they  had  reached  the  ending  of  the  hymn,  127 

They  cried  out  loudly:  ^^Virum  non  cognosco,** 
And  then  did  softly  recommence  their  song. 

This  finished,  still  they  cried :  *  *  Diana  kept  1^0 

Within  the  wood,  and  drove  out  Helice, 
Who  tasted  Venus'  poison."    Then  again 

They  turned  to  sing;  and  then  they  cried  in  praise         133 


PURGATORIO,  XXVI  255 

Of  women  and  of  husbands  who  were  chaste, 

As  virtue  and  as  marriage  both  enjoin. 
And  I  believe  this  mode  suffices  them  136 

For  all  the  time  that  fire  is  burning  them ; 

For  such  the  cure  and  such  the  food  must  be 
That  work  the  healing  of  the  final  wound.  139 


CANTO  XXVI 

While  thus  we  went  along  the  edge,  the  one 

Before  the  other,  the  good  Master  oft 

"Would  say :  '* Take  heed !  and  let  my  warning  help." 
The  sun  was  striking  my  right  shoulder  now,  ^ 

And  with  his  rays  was  changing  all  the  blue 

Within  the  western  sky  to  white;  and  I 
Made  ruddier  the  flame  where  I  did  cast  <^ 

My  shadow  on  it;  yet  this  sign  so  slight 

I  saw  observed  by  many  passing  shades. 
This  was  the  cause  that  gave  an  opening  10 

To  them  to  speak  of  me;  and  they  began 

To  say :  '  *  His  body  does  not  seem  to  be 
Fictitious."    Then  toward  me  came  certain  ones  13 

So  far  as  possible,  ever  with  care 

Not  to  come  forth  where  they  would  not  be  burned. 
**0  thou  who  goest  in  the  others'  train,  16 

Not  for  thy  sloth,  but  reverent  perchance. 

Answer  thou  me  who  burn  in  thirst  and  fire; 
Nor  is  it  I  alone  need  thy  reply ;  1^ 

All  these  thirst  more  for  it  than  Indian 

Or  Ethiop  for  water  that  is  cold. 
Pray,  tell  us  how  it  is  that  thou  canst  make  22 

Thyself  a  wall  against  the  sun,  as  if 

Thou  hadst  not  yet  entered  the  net  of  death. '  * 


81 


84 


87 


256  THE  DIVINE  COMEDY 

Thus  one  of  them  addressed  me,  and  I  then  25 

Should  have  declared  myself,  had  I  not  been 
Intent  on  something  strange  that  then  appeared; 

For  in  the  middle  of  the  burning  road  28 

Came  on  with  faces  opposite  to  these 
A  folk  that  made  me  wonder  in  suspense. 

On  either  side  I  see  each  shade  make  haste, 
And  one  will  to  another  give  a  kiss 
And  tarry  not,  content  with  brief  caress; 

Thus  with  the  brown  troop  of  the  ants  will  one 
Touch  muzzle  with  another,  if  perchance 
They  may  espy  their  fortune  or  their  way. 

Soon  as  they  end  this  friendly  welcoming. 
Before  the  first  step  hastens  further  on, 
Each  group  endeavors  to  outcry  the  other; 

The  new  folk  ''Sodom  and  Gomorra!"  shout,  *® 

The  other  ''That  the  bull  may  haste  to  meet 
Her  lust,  Pasiphae  enters  the  cow.'' 

Then  like  the  cranes,  as  if  some  sought  in  flight  ^ 

Riphaean  mountains,  and  some  sought  the  sands, 
These  fearful  of  the  cold,  and  those  of  sun. 

The  one  folk  goes  away,  the  other  comes,  *• 

And  they  return  in  tears  to  their  first  songs, 
And  to  the  cry  that  most  befits  their  plight; 

The  very  ones  who  had  besought  me,  came 
Close  to  my  side  as  they  had  done  before. 
And,  by  their  looks,  intent  on  listening. 

I,  who  had  twice  observed  what  they  desired, 
Began  to  speak :  "  0  souls,  assured  to  have, 
Whenever  it  may  be,  a  state  of  peace, 

Neither  unripe  nor  yet  mature  my  limbs 
Were  not  left  yonder,  but  are  here  with  me 
Together  with  their  blood  and  with  their  joints. 

I  go  hence  upward  to  be  blind  no  more ;  W 


49 


62 


55 


PURGATORIO,  XXVI  257 

On  high  a  Lady  wins  us  grace,  whereby 

I  bring  my  mortal  body  through  your  world. 

So  may  your  greatest  longing  be  appeased,  61 

And  thus  the  heaven  that  is  full  of  love 
And  is  most  ample,  soon  become  your  home, 

Tell  me,  that  I  may  trace  it  yet  upon  ^ 

My  paper,  who  ye  are,  and  what  that  throng 
May  be,  that  goes  its  way  behind  your  backs  ? ' ' 

Not  otherwise  confused  the  mountaineer  67 

Is  troubled,  and  with  gazing  round  is  dumb. 
When  rough  and  savage  he  comes  into  town, 

Than  was  each  shade  in  its  appearance  then ;  70 

But  when  they  were  relieved  of  wondering, 
Which  is  soon  quieted  in  lofty  hearts, 

* '  Blessed  art  thou,  that  for  a  better  life, "  73 

That  one  began  who  first  had  questioned  me, 
' '  Ladest  thy  ship  with  knowledge  of  our  land. 

The  folk  that  comes  not  with  us  did  offence  76 

In  that  for  which  once  Caesar,  triumphing. 
Heard  people  crying  out  against  him  '  Queen ! ' 

Therefore  these  cry  out  'Sodom!'  when  they  leave,  79 

As  thou  hast  heard  them,  in  their  ow^n  reproof. 
Thus  adding  to  the  burning  by  their  shame. 

Our  sinning  was  hermaphrodite;  and  since  ^2 

We  kept  not  in  the  bounds  of  human  law, 
But  followed  like  the  beasts  our  appetite, 

To  our  opprobrium  we  all  repeat,  85 

Whene  'er  we  separate,  her  name,  who  made 
Herself  a  brute  within  the  brute-like  frame. 

Thou  knowest  now  our  deeds,  and  what  our  guilt ;  ^^ 

If  thou  perchance  wouldst  know  what  are  our  names. 
Time  fails  to  tell,  nor  could  I;  but  indeed 

I  will  make  void  thy  wish  to  know  of  me ;  ^1 

For  I  am  Guido  Guinizelli ;  now 


258  THE  DIVINE  COMEDY 

I  purge  myself,  for  full  repentance  came 
Before  my  death."    What  in  Lycurgus'  grief  ^* 

To  see  their  mother  her  two  sons  became, 

Such  I  became,  but  rose  not  to  such  height, 
When  I  heard  then  my  father  tell  his  name,  ^7 

Father  of  others  better  than  myself. 

Who  e  'er  made  sweet  and  graceful  rhymes  of  love ; 
Then  thoughtful  I  went  on,  and  neither  heard  100 

Nor  spoke,  but  long  I  gazed  at  him,  and  yet 

I  drew  no  nearer  to  him  for  the  flames. 
When  I  had  fed  my  eyes  with  looking  long,  103 

I  offered  to  his  service  all  I  was. 

With  affirmation  that  inspires  belief. 
And  he  to  me :  *  *  Thou  leavest  such  a  trace  106 

Within  me  and  so  plain,  by  what  I  hear. 

As  Lethe  cannot  take  away,  nor  dim. 
But,  if  thy  words  just  now  swore  truth,  tell  me  109 

What  is  the  reason  that  thou  showest  forth 

In  speech  and  look  that  thou  dost  hold  me  dear." 
And  I  to  him  made  answer:  ''Your  sweet  lays,  112 

Which  shall,  as  long  as  modem  use  endures. 

Make  dear  their  very  characters  in  ink. ' ' 
*' Brother,"  said  he,  ''this  one  whom  I  pick  out,*'  115 

(He  pointed  to  a  spirit  there  in  front,) 

"Was  in  the  mother-tongue  a  better  workman. 
All  verse  of  love  and  all  prose  of  romance  US 

His  work  excelled ;  and  let  the  foolish  talk, 

Who  deem  his  better  that  one  of  Limoges. 
They  look  to  rumor  more  than  to  the  truth,  121 

And  thus  fix  their  opinion,  ere  the  art 

Or  reason  has  been  listened  to  by  them. 
Many  of  old  treated  Guittone  thus,  124 

From  mouth  to  mouth  crying  his  praise  alone, 

Until  the  truth  has  conquered  him  with  most. 


PURGATORIO,  XXVII  259 


Now  if  thou  hast  such  ample  privilege,  127 

That  thou  mayst  to  that  cloister  go,  where  Christ 
Is  Abbot  of  the  college,  do  thou  say- 
One  Paternoster  unto  Him  for  me,  130 
As  far  as  need  is  for  us  of  this  world. 
In  which  the  power  to  sin  is  no  more  ours/' 

Perchance  that  he  might  so  give  place  to  one  133 

Close  by  behind,  he  vanished  through  the  fire. 
As  when  a  fish  in  water  seeks  the  depths. 

I  went  a  little  forward  toward  the  one  136 

That  he  had  pointed  out,  and  said  to  him, 
That  for  his  name  my  longing  had  prepared 

A  gracious  place ;  then  willingly  he  said :  139 

''Your  courteous  request  so  pleases  me. 
That  I  nor  can  nor  will  hide  me  from  you; 

I  am  Arnaut,  who  weep,  yet  singing  go;  1^2 

"With  grief  I  see  the  folly  that  is  past. 
And  see  with  joy  the  hoped-for  day  before. 

Now  by  that  Power  that  is  guiding  you  145 

Up  to  the  summit  of  these  stairs,  I  pray 
That  in  due  time  ye  call  to  mind  my  pain;" 

Then  hid  himself  in  the  refining  fire.  148 


CANTO  XXVII 

As  when  he  first  sends  forth  his  quivering  rays 
There  where  his  Maker  shed  His  blood,  meanwhile 
The  Ebro  falling  'neath  the  lofty  Scales, 

And  Ganges'  waters  hot  with  blazing  noon. 
So  stood  the  sun;  and  day  was  at  its  close. 
When  God's  glad  Messenger  appeared  to  us, 

Outside  the  flame,  and  standing  on  the  bank. 
And  singing  there:  '^Beati  mundo  corde/' 


260  THE  DIVINE  COMEDY 

With  voice  that  was  more  living  far  than  ours. 

Then :  * '  Holy  souls,  no  one  goes  farther  on,  10 

If  first  the  fire  bite  not ;  enter  ye  this, 
And  be  not  deaf  to  what  they  sing  beyond,*' 

Said  he  to  us,  when  we  were  near  to  him;  18 

Whereat  when  I  had  heard  him,  I  became 
Even  as  one  whom  men  put  in  the  grave. 

Above  my  clasped  hands  I  stretched  forward  while  1^ 

I  watched  the  fire,  picturing  vividly 
The  human  bodies  I  had  e'er  seen  burned. 

Then  the  good  escorts  turned  about  to  me,  !• 

And  Virgil  said  to  me:  *'My  son,  in  this 
It  may  be  there  is  torment,  but  not  death. 

Recall  to  mind,  recall  to  mind, — if  I  22 

Even  on  Geryon  safely  guided  thee, 
What  shall  I  do,  now  we  are  nearer  God? 

Know  certainly,  that  if  within  the  heart  25 

Of  these  flames  thou  shouldst  stand  a  thousand  years, 
They  could  not  rob  thee  of  a  single  hair ; 

And  if  thou  think  perchance  that  I  deceive,  28 

Move  toward  them,  and  gain  faith  by  thine  own  self 
With  thine  own  hands  upon  thy  garments'  hem. 

Now  put  away,  put  all  away  thy  fear ;  31 

Turn  hither,  and  come  on  secure. ' '    And  yet, 
Against  my  conscience,  I  stood  motionless. 

Seeing  me  motionless,  unyielding  still,  34 

He  said,  disturbed  a  little :  *  *  Now,  my  son. 
Thou  seest  this  wall  'twixt  thee  and  Beatrice." 

As  at  the  name  of  Thisbe,  Pyramus  87 

Opening  his  dying  eyes,  and  looked  at  her, 
What  time  the  mulberry  became  blood-red, 

So  I,  my  obduracy  softened,  turned  ^ 

To  my  wise  Leader,  when  I  heard  the  name, 
Which  in  my  mind  is  ever  springing  up. 


PURGATORIO,  XXVII  261 

Whereat,  nodding  his  head,  he  said  to  me:  43 

**What?  do  we  mean  to  stay  this  side?"  then  smiled, 

As  on  a  child,  won  over  by  a  fruit. 
He  entered  then  the  fire  in  front  of  me,  40 

Asking  of  Statins  to  come  behind, 

Who  had  for  long  before  divided  us. 
When  I  had  entered,  into  boiling  glass  49 

I  could  have  flung  me,  to  become  more  cool, 

Such  was  the  burning  without  measure  there. 
For  consolation  my  sweet  Father  spoke  52 

Only  of  Beatrice  as  he  went  on. 

Saying:  "E'en  now  I  seem  to  see  her  eyes." 
A  voice  we  heard  beyond  was  singing  now,  55 

And  guided  us;  and  we,  intent  alone 

On  that,  came  forth  upon  the  upward  way. 
''Venite,  henedicti  Patris  mei/^  58 

Sounded  within  a  light,  that  overcame 

My  vision  so,  I  could  not  look  thereon. 
* '  The  sun  sinks  down, ' '  it  added ;  ' '  evening  comes ;  61 

Tariy  not  now,  but  go  with  eager  steps. 

While  yet  there  is  no  darkness  in  the  west." 
Straight  rose  the  pathway  upward  through  the  rock,         64 

Toward  such  a  quarter,  that  I  now  cut  off 

In  front  of  me  the  rays  of  the  low  sun. 
Few  were  the  steps  of  which  we  made  essay  67 

Before  my  sages  and  myself  perceived 

By  vanished  shadows,  that  the  sun  had  set 
Behind  us.    Ere  in  its  immensity  70 

The  whole  horizon  had  but  one  sole  hue. 

And  night  was  everywhere  dispensed  abroad, 
Each  one  of  us  made  of  a  step  his  bed,  73 

Because  the  nature  of  the  Mount  had  reft 

Our  power  of  ascent  and  not  our  will. 
As  when  they  ruminate  the  goats  are  tame,  76 


262  THE  DIVINE  COMEDY 

Which  were  but  now  so  agile  on  the  heights 

And  wanton,  ere  they  had  been  fed,  and  rest 
Quiet  in  shade,  while  still  the  sun  is  hot,  79 

Watched  by  the  shepherd,  who  upon  his  staff 

Now  leans,  and,  as  he  leans,  is  keeping  them ; 
And  as  the  herdsman  in  the  open  fields  82 

Passes  the  night  in  quiet  by  his  flock, 

And  watches  lest  some  wild  beast  scatter  it, 
At  that  time  such  we  were,  all  three  of  us,  W 

I,  like  the  goat,  and  like  the  shepherds,  they, 

Hemmed  in  on  either  side  by  lofty  rock. 
Little  of  aught  outside  could  there  be  seen;  88 

But  in  that  little  I  could  see  the  stars. 

Clearer  and  larger  too  than  is  their  wont. 
Thus  ruminating,  and  admiring  these,  ^1 

A  sleep  possessed  me,  sleep  that  oftentimes 

Before  the  deed  has  been,  has  news  of  it. 
It  was  the  hour,  I  think,  when  from  the  east  ^ 

First  strike  the  mountain  Cytherea's  rays, 

Who  ever  seems  to  bum  with  fire  of  love; 
A  lady  young  and  beautiful  appeared  ^7 

To  me  in  dream,  who  through  a  meadow  went. 

Plucking  the  flowers,  and  in  her  song  she  said: 
**Let  that  one  know,  who  asks  my  name,  that  I  ^^^ 

Am  Leah,  and  go  moving  my  fair  hands 

About  to  make  a  garland  for  myself. 
I  deck  me  here  to  please  me  at  my  glass ;  103 

But  from  her  mirror,  where  all  day  she  sits, 

My  sister  Rachel  never  turns  away; 
Her  pleasure  is  to  see  her  own  fair  eyes,  1^ 

As  mine  to  deck  myself  with  my  own  hands; 

Seeing  brings  her  content,  as  working,  me.*' 
And  now  the  splendors  of  the  break  of  day,  109 

Rising  the  dearer  to  the  pilgrims'  eyeSf 


PURGATORIO,  XXVII  263 

As  they  returning  lodge  less  far  from  home, 
"Were  making  darkness  flee  on  every  side,  112 

And  with  it  too  my  sleep ;  whence  rising,  I 

Saw  the  great  masters  were  already  risen. 
*  *  That  pleasant  fruit,  which  mortal  men  with  care  ^15 

Upon  so  many  branches  seek  to  find. 

Shall  pacify  thy  hungerings  today. ' ' 
Such  were  the  words  in  which  then  Virgil  spoke,  11  ^ 

Addressing  me,  and  never  were  there  gifts. 

That  could  have  given  pleasure  like  to  these. 
Such  longing  upon  longing  came  to  me  121 

To  be  above,  that  then  at  every  step 

I  felt  my  pinions  growing  for  the  flight. 
"When  all  the  stairway  underneath  our  feet  124 

Was  hastened  over  to  the  topmost  step, 

On  me  then  Virgil  fixed  his  eyes,  and  said : 
''The  fire  of  time  and  of  eternity  127 

Thou  hast  beheld,  my  son,  and  now  art  come 

"Where,  of  myself,  I  can  no  more  discern. 
Hither  with  wit  I  brought  thee,  and  with  art ;  130 

Henceforth  take  thine  own  pleasure  for  thy  guide ; 

From  the  steep  ways  thou  'rt  free,  and  from  the  strait. 
See  there  the  sun  that  shines  upon  thy  brow,  133 

See  the  young  grass,  the  flowers,  and  the  shrubs, 

Which  here  the  ground  produces  of  itself. 
"Until  the  fair  eyes  shall  have  come  with  joy,  136 

That  with  their  tears  caused  me  to  come  to  thee, 

Thou  canst  be  seated,  and  canst  walk  'midst  these. 
Await  no  more  my  words,  nor  sign  from  me,  139 

For  free,  upright,  and  sound  thy  judgment  is ; 

'Twere  wrong  to  disobey  its  will,  and  hence 
Over  thyself  I  crown  and  mitre  thee."  142 


264  THE  DIVINE  COMEDY 


CANTO  XXVIII 


Now  eager  to  search  through  and  round  about 

The  wood  divine  of  dense  and  living  growth, 

Which  tempered  the  new  daylight  to  my  eyes, 
Without  awaiting  more  I  left  the  bank,  * 

And  entered  on  the  plain  with  slowest  steps. 

Where  on  all  sides  the  ground  breathed  fragrance  forth. 
A  sweet  breeze,  that  within  itself  had  naught  7 

Of  veering  change,  was  blowing  on  my  brow. 

With  force  no  greater  than  a  gentle  wind. 
In  which  the  branches,  quickly  tremulous,  10 

Were  bending  all  toward  the  region  where 

The  holy  Mountain  cast  its  shadow  first ; 
Yet  from  their  places  they  swayed  not  so  far,  13 

That  in  the  tree-tops  there  the  little  birds 

Had  ceased  to  exercise  their  every  art; 
But  full  of  joy  fulness  they  sang,  and  took  16 

The  early  breezes  in  the  foliage. 

Which  e'er  kept  up  the  burden  to  their  rhymes. 
Such  as  from  branch  to  branch  collects  itself  1^ 

Beside  the  shore  of  Chiassi  through  the  pines, 

When  Aeolus  lets  the  Scirocco  forth. 
Already  had  my  slow  steps  carried  me  22 

So  far  within  the  ancient  wood,  that  I 

Could  no  more  see  where  I  had  entered  in ; 
And  lo,  my  further  course  a  stream  cut  off,  25 

Which  with  its  little  waves  toward  the  left 

Bent  down  the  grass  that  grew  forth  from  its  banks. 
All  waters  that  are  purest  on  the  earth  28 

Would  seem  to  have  in  them  something  admixed, 

Compared  to  that,  within  which  naught  is  hidden, 
Although  it  moves  in  the  brown  dusk  beneath  ^1 


PURGATORIO,  XXVIII  265 

The  shadow  there  perpetual,  which  lets 

The  rays  of  sun  or  moon  ne'er  enter  in. 
My  feet  stood  still,  but  with  my  eyes  I  passed  34 

Beyond  the  little  stream,  to  gaze  upon 

The  fresh  May-blossoms  there  of  many  hues; 
And  then  appeared  to  me,  as  will  appear  37 

A  thing  which  on  a  sudden  turns  away 

All  other  thoughts  for  very  wondering, 
A  solitary  lady,  who  walked  there  40 

Singing,  and  culling  from  among  the  flowers. 

Which  painted  all  her  pathway.    Then  I  said : 
**0  Lady  fair,  who  in  the  rays  of  love  43 

Dost  warm  thyself,  if  I  may  trust  to  looks 

Which  are  the  heart's  accustomed  witnesses, 
I  pray  that  it  may  come  within  thy  will  46 

Now  to  draw  forward  toward  this  stream  so  far 

That  I  may  understand  what  thou  dost  sing. 
Thou  makest  me  remember  where  and  what  49 

Proserpina  was  at  the  season  when 

Her  mother  lost  her,  and  she  lost  the  spring. '* 
And  as  a  lady,  who  is  dancing,  turns  52 

With  feet  together  and  close  to  the  ground, 

And  one  before  another  scarcely  puts. 
Upon  the  red  and  yellow  flowerets  55 

She  turned  toward  me,  not  otherwise  than  would 

A  virgin,  lowering  her  modest  eyes; 
And  made  my  prayers  content,  for  she  approached  58 

So  near  that  the  sweet  sound  could  come  to  me 

Together  with  the  meanings  of  her  song. 
As  soon  as  she  was  where  the  grasses  are  61 

Just  bathed  by  waves  of  that  fair  stream,  she  raised 

Her  eyes  upon  me,  as  a  gracious  boon. 
I  do  not  think  so  great  a  light  shone  out  ^4 

Beneath  the  lids  of  Venus,  when  her  son 


266  THE  DIVINE  COMEDY 

Wholly  against  his  wont  had  pierced  them  through. 
Smiling,  upon  the  right  bank  opposite,  67 

She  went  on  plucking  with  her  hands  more  flowers, 

Which  the  high  land  produces  without  seed. 
Three  steps  alone  the  stream  kept  us  apart ;  70 

But  Hellespont,  where  Xerxes  crossed,  which  still 

Puts  curb  on  all  the  haughtiness  of  man, 
Surging  'twixt  Sestos'  and  Abydos'  shores  73 

Was  not  more  hated  in  Leander's  heart, 

Than  this  by  me,  because  it  parted  not. 
**  Ye  are  new  come ;  perhaps  because  I  here,  *'  76 

Thus  she  began,  *  *  am  smiling  in  this  place 

Chosen  to  be  the  nest  of  human  kind, 
Some  questioning  may  keep  you  in  suspense;  79 

But  the  psalm  Delectasti  gives  you  light, 

Which  can  dispel  the  clouds  of  intellect. 
But  thou  in  front,  who  wast  beseeching  me,  82 

Say  if  thou  wouldst  hear  more ;  for  I  have  come 

Ready  to  satisfy  all  thy  requests." 
**The  water  and  the  sound  within  the  wood,*'  85 

I  said,  ' '  combat  in  me  a  new  belief 

In  something  I  have  heard  opposed  to  this.** 
Whence  she  replied:  ''I  will  relate  how  that,  88 

Which  makes  thee  wonder,  springs  from  its  own  cause, 

And  purge  away  the  cloud  that  falls  on  thee. 
The  highest  Good,  pleasing  Itself  alone,  ^l 

Made  man  both  good,  and  for  good,  and  gave  him 

This  place  as  earnest  of  eternal  peace. 
Through  his  default  his  dwelling  here  was  brief;  ^* 

Through  his  default,  to  tears  and  laboring 

He  changed  his  honest  laughter  and  sweet  play. 
That  the  disturbance,  which  below  is  made  ^7 

By  exhalations  from  the  water  and  earth, 

Which,  as  they  may,  follow  the  train  of  heat, 


PURGATORIO,  XXVIII  267 

Should  not  break  forth  in  any  war  on  man,  100 

This  Mountain  rose  so  far  toward  the  heavens; 

And  is  free  from  them,  upward  from  the  gate. 
Now,  since  in  circuit  the  whole  air  revolves  103 

With  primal  revolution  from  above. 

Unless  its  round  be  broken  at  some  part, 
Upon  this  height,  which  stands  out  wholly  free  106 

In  living  air,  this  motion  strikes,  and  makes 

The  wood,  for  it  is  dense,  give  forth  the  sound; 
And  then  the  smitten  plant  has  such  a  power,  109 

That  with  its  virtue  it  fills  all  the  air, 

"Which  in  its  turning  scatters  it  around; 
The  rest  of  earth,  according  as  itself  112 

Or  its  own  sky  has  made  it  fit,  conceives 

And  brings  forth  divers  trees  of  divers  powers. 
When  ye  hear  this,  it  should  no  more  appear  115 

A  marvel  on  the  earth,  that  any  plant 

Should  there  take  root  without  apparent  seed. 
And  thou  shalt  know  that  all  the  holy  plain  118 

Where  thou  art  now,  is  full  of  every  seed. 

And  has  such  fruit  as  yonder  is  not  plucked. 
The  water  that  thou  seest  has  no  vein  121 

Restored  by  vapor  from  the  cold  condensed, 

As  streams  that  draw  and  lose  again  their  breath; 
But  issues  from  a  fountain,  constant,  sure,  124 

Which  ever  takes  from  God's  own  will,  as  much 

As  it  pours  freely  out  on  either  side ; 
On  this  side  is  descending  with  a  power  127 

That  takes  away  man 's  memory  of  sin ; 

On  that  side  gives  it  back,  of  all  good  deeds. 
On  this  side  Lethe  is  its  name,  while  there  130 

'Tis  called  Eunoe,  and  works  not  until 

Its  waters  have  been  tasted  there  and  here; 
And  all  the  other  savors  this  excels ;  133 


268  THE  DIVINE  COMEDY 

And  though  thy  thirst  might  yet  be  wholly  quenched, 

Even  should  I  reveal  no  more  to  thee, 
I  add,  in  grace,  a  corollary  too ;  136 

Nor  think  I  that  my  words  will  be  less  dear, 

If  they  go  further  than  I  promised  thee. 
Those  who  in  ancient  times  have  sung  the  Age  139 

Of  Gold  and  its  estate  of  bliss,  perchance 

Upon  Parnassus  dreamed  of  scenes  like  these. 
The  root  of  mankind  here  was  innocent ;  1^ 

Here  Spring  eternal,  and  here  every  fruit ; 

This  is  the  nectar,  of  which  each  one  speaks.  * ' 
Then  turned  I  wholly  backward  to  behold  1^5 

My  Poets,  and  I  saw  that  with  a  smile 

They  had  been  listening  to  her  last  words; 
To  the  fair  Lady  then  I  turned  my  eyes. 


148 


CANTO  XXIX 

When  thus  her  words  were  ended,  she  went  on 

Singing  like  one  who  is  inspired  with  love : 

^^Beatiy  quorum  tecta  sunt  peccata.'^ 
And  like  the  nymphs,  who  go  along  alone  ^ 

Through  forest  shades,  and  one  of  them  desires 

To  see  the  sun,  and  one  would  flee  his  light, 
Then  she  advanced  stream  upward,  following  ^ 

The  bank,  and  I  with  equal  pace  abreast, 

Her  little  steps  with  little  answering. 
There  were  not  of  her  steps  and  mine  as  yet  10 

A  hundred,  when  both  banks  so  turned  that  I 

Was  facing  now  again  toward  the  east. 
Nor  was  our  way  in  that  direction  long  18 

Before  the  Lady  turned  full  round  to  me, 

Saying :  *  *  My  brother,  look  and  listen  I '  *    Lo, 


PURGATORIO,  XXIX  269 


A  sudden  lustre  ran  on  every  side  1^ 

Through  the  great  forest,  and  awoke  the  thought 

That  there  had  been  a  lightning-flash,  perchance. 
Yet,  as  the  lightning  stays  but  as  it  comes,  19 

And  this,  remaining,  shone  out  more  and  more, 

I  said  within  my  mind:  ''What  thing  is  this?'' 
And  a  sweet  melody  was  running  through  22 

The  gleaming  air;  whereon  a  righteous  zeal 

Made  me  reprove  the  hardihood  of  Eve, 
Who,  when  the  heaven  and  the  earth  obeyed,  25 

The  only  woman,  and  but  just  now  formed. 

Endured  not  to  remain  'neath  any  veil; 
Beneath  which,  if  she  had  but  been  devout,  28 

All  these  ineffable  delights  ere  this 

I  should  have  known,  and  for  a  longer  time. 
While  I  went  on  amid  such  great  first-fruits  31 

Of  the  eternal  pleasure,  all  enrapt. 

And  still  in  eagerness  for  further  joys, 
'Neath  the  great  branches  there  in  front  of  us  34 

The  air  became  as  'twere  a  flaming  fire, 

And  the  sweet  sound  "was  heard  to  be  a  song. 
Most  holy  Virgins,  if  I  ever  bore  37 

Hunger  or  cold  or  fasting  for  your  sake. 

Occasion  spurs  me  to  claim  their  reward. 
Now  Helicon  must  needs  pour  forth  for  me,  ^^ 

And  with  her  choir  Urania  give  aid 

To  put  in  verse  things  difficult  to  think. 
A  little  further  on,  through  the  long  tract  *3 

Of  middle  space  between  ourselves  and  them, 

Appeared  delusively  seven  trees  of  gold; 
But  when  I  once  had  come  so  near  to  them,  46 

That  common  qualities,  which  cheat  the  sense. 

Lost  not  by  distance  their  especial  form. 
The  power  that  brings  matter  for  our  thought 


49 


270  THE  DIVINE  COMEDY 

Distinguished  now  that  they  were  candlesticks, 
And  heard  the  cry  ' '  Hosanna !  * '  in  their  song. 

Above,  the  pageant  beautiful  flamed  forth  52 

Far  brighter  than  the  moon  in  the  clear  sky 
At  midnight  in  the  middle  of  her  month. 

With  mind  all  full  of  wonder  I  turned  round  55 

To  the  good  Virgil,  and  he  answered  me 
With  look  in  which  amazement  shone  no  less. 

Then  turned  I  back  my  gaze  to  the  high  things,  58 

Which  moved  so  slowly  as  they  came  toward  us. 
New-wedded  brides  would  have  outstripped  them  quite. 

The  Lady  cried:  ''Why  art  thou  glowing  thus  ^1 

At  the  sole  aspect  of  the  living  lights. 
And  lookest  not  at  that  which  follows  themT* 

Then  I  saw  people,  following  after  those  64 

Who  seemed  to  be  their  leaders,  clad  in  white, 
Such  whiteness  as  was  never  yet  on  earth. 

The  water  was  resplendent  at  my  left,  •^ 

And  like  a  mirror  gave  me  back  again, 
If  I  looked  into  it,  my  own  left  side. 

When  I  had  such  a  place  upon  my  bank,  70 

That  the  stream  only  separated  me. 
That  I  might  better  see,  I  stayed  my  steps; 

Then  I  beheld  the  little  flames  advance,  7* 

Leaving  behind  them  trails  of  painted  air. 
And  seem  like  pennons  streaming  on  the  wind ; 

So  that  the  air  was  parted  over  them  7« 

In  seven  bands,  of  every  hue  like  those 
Of  Delia's  girdle  and  the  sun-made  bow. 

These  banners  were  extending  rearward  far  7* 

Beyond  my  power  to  see,  and,  as  I  think, 
The  outermost  were  then  ten  steps  apart. 

Under  so  fair  a  sky  as  I  describe  8* 

Came  four  and  twenty  elders,  two  by  two, 


PURGATORIO,  XXIX  271 

And  each  of  them  was  crowned  with  flower-de-luce ; 
And  they  all  sang:  "Blessed  art  thou  among  85 

The  daughters  born  of  Adam ;  blessed  be 

Thy  beauties  unto  all  eternity!" 
After  the  flowers  and  the  fresh  herbage  else,  88 

Opposite  me  upon  the  other  bank, 

No  longer  had  with  them  that  folk  elect. 
Even  as  light  succeeds  to  light  in  heaven,  ^1 

Four  living  creatures  followed  after  them, 

And  with  green  leaves  each  one  of  them  was  crowned. 
And  every  one  was  feathered  with  six  wings,  94 

The  feathers  full  of  eyes,  and  such  would  be 

The  eyes  of  Argus,  were  they  still  alive. 
To  tell  thee,  reader,  of  their  forms,  no  more  97 

I  lavish  rhymes;  other  expense  constrains 

Me  so,  I  cannot  here  be  prodigal. 
But  read  Ezechiel,  who  paints  them  so  190 

As  from  the  region  of  the  cold  he  saw 

Them  coming  with  the  wind,  and  cloud,  and  fire ; 
And  as  thou  findest  them  upon  his  page,  103 

E  'en  such  were  these,  except  that  for  the  wings 

John  is  with  me,  and  separates  from  him. 
The  space  that  was  between  these  four  contained  1^6 

A  chariot  triumphal,  on  two  wheels. 

Which  by  a  Griffon's  neck  was  drawn  along. 
It  lifted  upward  both  its  wings  between  109 

The  middle  band  and  three  on  either  side, 

So  that  he  did  none  harm  by  cleaving  it. 
So  high  they  rose,  that  they  were  out  of  sight;  112 

His  members  were  of  gold,  as  far  as  he 

Was  like  a  bird,  and  others  red  and  white. 
Never  did  Africanus  give  Rome  joy,  115 

Nor  e  'en  Augustus,  with  a  car  so  fair ; 

The  chariot  of  the  sun  were  poor  to  that. 


272  THE  DIVINE  COMEDY 

That  of  the  sun,  which  straying  was  consumed,  US 

"When  Earth  had  offered  up  her  prayer  devout, 
And  Jove  was  in  his  secret  counsel  just. 

Beside  the  right  wheel  in  a  circle  danced  121 

Three  ladies ;  and,  so  ruddy  one  of  them, 
She  would  be  hardly  seen  within  the  fire. 

The  other  was  as  if  her  flesh  and  bone  ^24 

Had  been  of  emerald;  the  third  one  was 
Like  the  new-fallen  snow  to  look  upon. 

And  they  seemed  led  along  now  by  the  white,  ^27 

Now  by  the  ruddy,  and  from  this  one's  song 
The  others  took  their  movements,  slow  and  swift. 

Beside  the  left  wheel  four  made  holiday,  130 

All  clad  in  purple,  following  the  mode 
Of  one  of  them,  in  whose  head  were  three  eyes. 

The  next  in  order  to  this  group  described  133 

"Were  two  old  men,  unlike  in  garb,  but  like 
In  their  demeanor,  dignified  and  grave ; 

One  showed  himself  as  of  the  family  IS® 

Of  that  supreme  Hippocrates,  whom  Nature 
Made  for  the  creatures  that  she  holds  most  dear ; 

The  other  showed  a  care  the  contrary,  139 

Bearing  a  sword  so  glittering  and  sharp. 
Even  this  side  the  stream  it  made  me  fear. 

Next  I  saw  four  of  humble  outward  mien ;  1*2 

Behind  them  all  was  an  old  man,  alone, 
Coming  in  sleep,  and  of  a  visage  keen. 

And  like  to  those  of  the  first  company  1*5 

These  seven  were  habited ;  but  round  their  heads 
They  had  not  of  the  lilies  made  their  wreath, 

Rather  of  roses,  and  of  other  flowers  1*® 

All  red;  the  eyes  not  far  away  had  sworn 
That  all  were  in  a  flame  above  their  brows. 

And  when  the  car  was  opposite  to  me,  151 


PUEGATORIO,  XXX  273 

It  thundered ;  and  these  worthy  people  seemed 
To  be  forbidden  further  to  advance, 
And  with  the  ensigns  at  the  front  stopped  there.  154 

CANTO  XXX 

When  the  Septentrion  of  the  primal  heaven, — 

Which  neither  rise  nor  setting  ever  knew. 

Nor  veil  of  other  cloud  than  that  of  sin, 
And  which  was  making  here  each  one  aware  4 

Of  his  own  duty,  as  the  lower  makes 

Him  know,  who  turns  the  helm  to  gain  the  port, — 
Had  come  to  rest,  the  truthful  folk,  who  had  7 

First  come  between  it  and  the  Griffon,  turned 

Toward  the  car,  as  to  their  peace ;  and  one 
Among  them,  as  a  messenger  from  heaven,  10 

Sang  ^'Veni,  sponsa,  de  Libano!''  thrice. 

Crying  aloud,  and  after  him  the  rest. 
And  like  the  blessed  dead  at  the  last  trump  13 

Rising  in  readiness,  each  from  his  tomb, 

And  voicing  Alleluias,  newly  clad, 
A  hundred  such  upon  this  car  divine  16 

Were  rising  now  ad  vocem  tanti  senis, 

Ministering  servants  of  eternal  life. 
All  saying:  ^'Benedictus,  qui  venis!''  19 

And,  strewing  flowers  above  them  and  around, 

''Manibus  o  date  lilia  plenis!" 
Ere  now  at  the  beginning  of  the  day  22 

All  rosy  have  I  seen  the  eastern  sky. 

The  heavens  elsewhere  beautifully  clear. 
And  then  the  sun  would  rise  with  shaded  face,  25 

His  light  so  tempered  by  the  vaporous  air. 

That  human  eyes  could  look  upon  it  long; 
So  it  was  there  within  a  cloud  of  flowers,  28 


274  THE  DIVINE  COMEDY 

Which  then  was  rising  from  angelic  hands, 

And  falling  back  again,  within,  without, 
Appeared  to  me  a  Lady,  olive-crowned  31 

Over  a  veil  pure  white,  with  mantle  green, 

And  robed  in  color  of  the  vivid  flame. 
My  spirit,  though  the  time  had  been  so  long  34 

Since  in  her  presence  it  had  felt  the  awe, 

Which  made  it  tremble  and  had  broken  it, 
Without  the  further  knowledge  of  the  eyes,  37 

By  hidden  virtue,  which  came  forth  from  her. 

Felt  the  great  power  of  the  olden  love. 
Soon  as  my  vision  had  been  smitten  thus  *0 

By  that  high  virtue  which  had  pierced  me  through 

Ere  yet  I  was  beyond  my  boyhood's  time, 
I  turned  me  to  the  left,  in  the  same  trust  43 

With  which  a  child  runs  to  its  mother's  side. 

When  fear  has  come  upon  it  or  distress. 
To  say  to  Virgil :  ' '  Not  a  single  dram  ^ 

Of  blood  is  left  in  me  that  trembles  not; 

I  know  the  tokens  of  the  love  of  old." 
But  Virgil  had  abandoned  us,  left  now  *^ 

Without  him,  Virgil,  sweetest  Father  mine, 

Virgil,  to  whom  for  my  salvation,  I 
Had  given  myself;  and  then  of  no  avail  52 

Was  all  our  Ancient  Mother  lost  to  keep 

My  cheeks,  that  dew  had  cleansed,  from  darkening  tears. 
*  *  Dante,  though  Virgil  go  away,  not  yet  55 

Let  thy  tears  fall,  let  thy  tears  fall  not  yet. 

For  by  another  sword  thy  tears  must  fall." 
And  as  an  admiral  goes  forward  now  58 

And  now  goes  aft,  to  see  the  men  who  serve 

On  other  ships,  and  cheers  them  to  do  well, 
So  there  upon  the  car  at  its  left  edge,  <J1 

When  I  had  turned  at  hearing  called  my  name, 


PURGATORIO,  XXX  275 


64 


Which  by  necessity  is  here  set  down, 
I  saw  the  Lady,  who  had  first  appeared 

Beneath  the  veil  of  the  angelic  greeting. 

Direct  her  eyes  toward  me  this  side  the  stream. 
Although  the  veil,  which  fell  down  from  her  head,  67 

And  was  encircled  with  Minerva's  leaves, 

Allowed  not  that  her  form  be  manifest. 
Queen-like,  and  in  her  bearing  haughty  still  70 

She  then  went  on,  like  one  who  speaks  and  yet 

Is  holding  back  the  warmest  of  his  words : 
*'Look  at  me  well;  I  am  indeed,  indeed  73 

Am  Beatrice.     How  deignedst  thou  approach 

The  Mount  ?    Didst  not  know  man  is  happy  here  ? ' ' 
I  drooped  my  eyes  to  the  clear  fount,  but  when  76 

I  saw  myself  in  it,  they  sought  the  grass. 

My  brow  was  heavy  with  such  weight  of  shame. 
For  as  a  mother  to  her  son  seems  proud,  79 

So  seemed  she  then  to  me;  because  the  taste 

Finds  bitterness  in  pity  that  is  stern. 
She  kept  her  silence;  and  then  suddenly  82 

The  Angels  sang  forth:  *'In  te,  Domine, 

Speravi/'  and  with  ^^ pedes  meos'^  closed. 
And  as  the  snow  among  the  living  rafters  85 

Along  the  back  of  Italy  congeals, 

Blown  down  and  packed  by  the  Slavonian  winds, 
And  when  'tis  melted  trickles  through  itself,  88 

If  but  the  land  that  lacks  the  shadows,  breathe, 

So  that  it  seems  as  candle-melting  fire; 
Such  was  I  there  without  a  tear  or  sigh  91 

Before  the  song  of  those,  that  ever  sing 

After  the  notes  of  the  eternal  spheres ; 
But  when  I  heard  in  the  sweet  harmonies  94 

Compassion  for  myself,  more  than  if  they 

Had  said:  ''Lady,  why  put  him  thus  to  shame?" 


276  THE  DIVINE  COMEDY 

The  ice,  that  held  my  heart  so  tightly  clasped,  ^^ 

Became  as  breath  and  water,  and  through  mouth 

And  eyes,  with  anguish  issued  from  my  breast. 
Still  at  the  mentioned  side  upon  the  car  1^ 

She  stood,  nor  moved  as  she  at  length  addressed 

Her  words  unto  the  pious  beings  thus : 
**Ye  keep  your  vigils  in  the  eternal  day,  ^03 

So  that  nor  night  nor  sleep  can  steal  from  you 

A  step  which  Earth  may  take  upon  her  ways; 
Wherefore  my  answer  is  with  greater  care,  ^^6 

That  he  may  understand  who  yonder  weeps. 

So  that  his  grief  may  be  as  was  his  fault. 
Not  only  by  the  work  of  mighty  spheres,  109 

Which  turn  to  some  allotted  end  each  seed 

According  as  the  stars  companion  it, 
But  by  a  bounty  of  God's  gracious  gifts,  112 

Which  have  such  lofty  vapors  for  their  rain. 

That  sight  like  ours  may  not  attain  to  them. 
This  one  in  his  new  life  potentially  115 

Was  such,  that  every  upright  tendency 

Would  have  wrought  out  in  him  a  wondrous  proof ; 
But  so  much  more  malign  and  wild  becomes  ^^8 

The  ground  with  evil  seed,  or  left  untilled. 

As  it  has  greater  vigor  in  the  soil. 
Some  time  did  I  sustain  him  with  my  face,  121 

For  as  I  showed  to  him  my  youthful  eyes 

I  led  him  with  me,  turned  to  what  is  right. 
Upon  the  threshold  of  my  second  age  124 

As  soon  as  I  was  standing,  and  changed  life, 

He  gave  himself  to  others,  leaving  me. 
When  I  from  flesh  to  spirit  had  arisen,  127 

My  beauty  and  my  virtue  both  increased, 

I  was  less  pleasing  and  less  dear  to  him ; 
He  turned  his  steps  to  ways  not  of  the  truth,  130 


PURGATORIO,  XXXI  277 

And  followed  the  false  images  of  good, 
Which  keep  no  promise  wholly  that  they  make. 

To  pray  for  inspirations  helped  me  not,  133 

With  which  in  dream  and  otherwise  I  called 
Him  back  to  me,  so  slight  his  care  for  them. 

So  low  he  fell  that  all  expedients  136 

For  his  salvation  proved  already  short, 
Except  to  show  him  those  who  have  been  lost. 

So  to  the  portal  of  the  dead  I  went,  139 

And  unto  him,  who  led  him  to  this  height, 
I  poured  my  supplications  forth  with  tears. 

The  high  decree  of  God  were  set  at  naught,  1^2 

If  Lethe  should  be  passed,  and  such  a  viand 
Were  tasted  by  him  without  any  scot 

Of  penitence  made  manifest  in  tears."  1^5 


CANTO  XXXI 

*'0  THOU  who  art  beyond  the  sacred  stream," 

Turning  to  me  the  point  of  her  discourse, 

Which  even  with  the  edge  seemed  keen  to  me. 
As  she  began  again  without  delay,  ^ 

'  *  Say,  say,  if  this  is  true ;  to  such  a  charge 

Thine  own  confession  must  needs  be  conjoined." 
My  powers  were  confused  to  such  degree,  7 

That,  though  my  voice  moved,  it  was  quenched  before 

The  organs  making  it  could  set  it  free. 
Pausing  a  little,  then  she  said:  "What  think 'st  thou?        1^ 

Reply  to  me;  for  the  sad  memories 

The  water  has  not  yet  destroyed  in  thee." 
My  fear  and  my  confusion  both  combined  13 

In  forcing  such  a  "Yes"  from  out  my  mouth, 

That  one  had  needed  eyes  to  make  it  out. 


278  THE  DIVINE  COMEDY 

And  as  a  cross-bow  breaks  both  string  and  bow  1^ 

When  it  discharges  with  a  strain  too  great, 
And  with  less  force  the  arrow  hits  the  mark ; 

E'en  so  beneath  that  heavy  load  I  burst  1^ 

As  I  poured  forth  my  flooding  tears  and  sighs 
"With  voice  that  slackened  in  its  issuing. 

Wherefore  she  said :  * '  Within  desires  of  mine,  22 

Which  were  conducting  thee  to  love  that  Good, 
Beyond  which  there  is  naught  to  be  aspired  to, 

What  pits  across  thy  path,  or  yet  what  chains  25 

Didst  thou  encounter,  that  thou  shouldst  divest 
Thyself  of  hope  of  passing  further  on? 

And  what  allurements,  or  what  benefits  28 

Upon  the  brows  of  others  were  displayed. 
That  thou  shouldst  wander  in  pursuit  of  them?" 

After  the  drawing  of  a  bitter  sigh,  31 

Scarcely  had  I  a  voice  for  answering, 
Such  labor  had  my  lips  in  forming  it. 

Weeping  I  said  to  her :  '  *  The  present  things  34 

With  their  false  pleasure  turned  my  steps  away, 
Soon  as  your  face  was  hidden  from  my  sight." 

And  she :  ' '  Hadst  thou  been  silent,  or  denied  37 

That  which  thou  dost  confess,  thy  fault  would  not 
Be  known  the  less,  by  such  a  Judge  it  is  known. 

But  when  the  accusation  of  the  sin  *0 

Bursts  forth  from  one 's  own  mouth,  then  in  our  court 
The  wheel  turns  itself  back  against  the  edge. 

But  yet,  in  order  that  thou  mayst  now  bear  *3 

Shame  for  thy  error,  and  another  time. 
Hearing  the  Sirens,  thou  mayst  have  more  strength, 

Put  by  the  sowing  of  thy  tears,  and  listen ;  4^ 

Thus  shalt  thou  hear  how,  once  my  flesh  entombed. 
Thou  shouldst  have  turned  thy  steps  just  opposite. 

Never  did  Nature  offer  thee,  nor  Art,  *^ 


PURGATORIO,  XXXI  279 

Pleasure  so  great  as  the  fair  limbs  in  whicli 

I  was  enclosed,  and  which  are  strewn  in  earth; 
And  if  the  highest  pleasure  failed  thee  so  ^2 

Upon  my  death,  what  mortal  thing  was  there 

That  should  have  drawn  thee  then  to  its  desire? 
Truly  thou  shouldst,  at  the  first  arrow-shot  55 

Of  things  fallacious,  then  have  risen  up 

And  followed  me,  who  was  no  longer  such. 
And  there  should  not  have  weighted  down  thy  wings,      ^^ 

Awaiting  further  blows,  a  damsel  young, 

Or  other  vanity  of  so  brief  use. 
E'en  two  or  three  the  young  bird  will  await,  6^ 

But  in  the  sight  of  those  full-fledged,  in  vain 

Is  the  net  spread,  and  is  the  arrow  shot." 
Even  as  children  in  their  shame  stand  dumb  6* 

And  listening,  with  eyes  fixed  on  the  ground, 

Repentantly  acknowledging  their  guilt. 
Such,  standing  there,  was  I;  and  then  she  said:  ^'^ 

'*  Since  hearing  grieves  thee,  lift  thou  up  thy  beard. 

And  thou  shalt  feel  a  greater  pain  by  sight." 
With  less  resistance  would  a  sturdy  oak  70 

Tear  up  its  roots  before  a  wind  of  ours. 

Or  one  that  blows  from  off  larbas'  land. 
Than  I  raised  up  my  chin  at  her  behest ;  73 

And  when  she  named  my  beard  instead  of  eyes, 

I  knew  the  venom  of  her  argument. 
And  when  my  face  was  openly  upraised,  76 

My  sight  perceived  that  from  their  scattering 

Of  flowers  those  primal  creatures  now  had  ceased; 
My  eyes,  as  yet  with  little  confldence,  79 

Saw  Beatrice  turned  toward  the  animal. 

Which,  with  two  natures,  is  in  person  one. 
Beyond  the  stream  under  her  veil  she  seemed  82 

Surpassing  even  more  her  ancient  self. 


280  THE  DIVINE  COMEDY 

Than  she  had  all  the  others  when  with  us. 
The  nettle  of  repentance  stung  me  so,  85 

That  of  all  other  things,  what  most  had  drawn 

Me  to  its  love,  became  most  hated  now. 
Such  knowledge  of  myself  had  pierced  my  heart,  88 

That  overwhelmed  I  fell ;  what  I  became 

Is  known  to  her  who  was  the  cause  of  it. 
Then,  when  my  heart  restored  my  outward  power,  ^^ 

The  Lady  whom  I  came  upon  alone 

I  saw  above  me,  saying :  ' '  Hold  to  me,  hold  to  me !  * ' 
For  she  had  drawn  me  to  the  stream,  that  now  ^^ 

Had  reached  my  throat,  and  dragging  me,  she  went 

Over  the  water  like  a  shuttle,  light. 
When  I  was  near  the  blessed  bank,  I  heard  ^^ 

^^Asperges  me''  so  sweetly,  memory 

Can  not  contain  it,  and  far  less  my  verse. 
When  the  fair  Lady,  opening  her  arms,  100 

Had  clasped  my  head,  she  caused  it  to  submerge 

Till  of  the  water  I  was  forced  to  drink; 
She  took  me  thence,  presenting  me  thus  bathed  1^3 

Within  the  dance  of  the  four  beautiful. 

And  over  me  each  one  held  out  her  arm. 
**Here  we  are  nymphs,  but  in  the  heaven  stars;  1^6 

Ere  Beatrice  descended  to  the  world 

Were  we  ordained  for  handmaids  unto  her. 
We  lead  thee  to  her  eyes,  but,  for  the  light  ^^ 

Of  joy  within  them,  three  that  are  beyond. 

Whose  gaze  is  deeper  still,  shall  sharpen  thine/' 
Thus  saying  they  began ;  and  afterward  112 

They  led  me  with  them  to  the  Griffon's  breast, 

Where  Beatrice  was  standing,  turned  toward  us. 
They  said :  *  *  See  that  thou  do  not  spare  thine  eyes,        1^5 

For  thou  art  placed  before  those  emeralds. 

Whence  Love  once  drew  those  weapons  aimed  at  thee. ' ' 


PURGATORIO,  XXXII  281 

A  thousand  longings  hotter  than  the  flame  118 

Held  fast  my  eyes  upon  the  gleaming  eyes, 

Which  were  upon  the  Griffon  fixed  alone. 
As  in  a  glass  the  sun,  not  otherwise  121 

The  two-fold  animal  shone  there  within. 

Now  with  the  one,  now  with  the  other  power. 
Think,  reader,  if  I  deemed  it  marvelous,  124 

"When  I  beheld  the  thing  itself  at  rest. 

And  in  its  image  ever  varying. 
While  full  of  awe  and  happiness,  my  soul  127 

Was  tasting  of  the  food,  which  of  itself 

Quenching  the  thirst,  arouses  thirst  anew. 
The  other  three,  who  in  their  bearing  showed  130 

Themselves  of  higher  rank,  came  forward  now, 

Dancing  to  their  angelic  caroling. 
''Turn,  Beatrice,  turn  thou  thy  holy  eyes,''  133 

Such  was  their  song,  ''upon  thy  faithful  one, 

Who  has,  to  see  thee,  taken  so  many  steps; 
And  of  thy  grace  do  us  the  grace,  that  thou  136 

Unveil  thy  mouth  to  him,  that  he  discern 

The  second  beauty,  that  thou  dost  conceal.'' 
0  splendor  of  eternal  living  light,  139 

Who  has  become  so  pallid  in  the  shade 

Upon  Parnassus,  or  drunk  at  its  well. 
That  would  not  seem  to  have  a  clouded  mind,  142 

Tried  he  to  render  thee  as  thou  didst  seem 

Beneath  the  brooding  heaven's  harmonies. 
When  thou  didst  free  thyself  in  that  free  air  ?  145 


CANTO  XXXII 

My  eyes  had  been  so  fixed  and  so  intent 
On  satisfaction  of  their  ten  years'  thirst, 
That  all  my  other  senses  were  extinct ; 


282  THE  DIVINE  COMEDY 

And  they  themselves  had  walls  on  either  side  * 

Of  unconcern,  so  with  the  ancient  net 

The  holy  smile  drew  them  unto  itself ; 
"When  forcibly  my  gaze  was  turned  about  7 

Toward  my  left  hand  by  those  Goddesses, 

Because  I  heard  them  say :  * '  Too  fixedly ! ' ' 
And  that  condition  of  the  eyes  for  sight  10 

When  they  have  just  been  smitten  by  the  sun 

Made  me  deprived  of  vision  for  a  time ; 
But  when  the  sight  re-formed  for  what  was  less,  ^3 

(I  say  for  less,  compared  with  what  was  more, 

From  which  I  had  been  forced  to  turn  away) 
I  saw  the  glorious  army  now  had  wheeled  1^ 

On  its  right  flank,  returning,  with  the  sun 

And  with  the  seven  flames  in  face  of  it. 
As  when  a  troop  will  turn  to  save  itself,  1* 

Under  its  shields,  and  with  its  banner  wheels 

Before  it  can  have  wholly  faced  about, 
That  soldiery  of  the  celestial  realm,  22 

Which  led  the  others,  had  all  passed  by  us 

Before  its  pole  had  turned  the  car  around. 
The  ladies  then  returning  to  the  wheels,  25 

The  Griffon  drew  the  blessed  burden  on, 

Yet  so,  that  not  a  single  feather  moved. 
The  fair  One,  who  had  drawn  me  at  the  ford,  28 

And  Statins  and  myself  followed  the  wheel 

Which  made  its  orbit  with  the  lesser  arc. 
Through  the  high  forest  passing,  empty  now  W 

By  fault  of  her  who  in  the  serpent  trusted, 

Our  steps  were  measured  to  angelic  strains. 
In  three  flights  of  an  arrow  from  its  string  '* 

As  long  a  space  were  covered,  as,  perchance 

We  had  advanced,  when  Beatrice  came  down. 
Then  **Adam*'  I  heard  murmured  by  them  all,  ^^ 


PURGATORIO,  XXXII  283 

"Who  formed  a  circle  next,  about  a  plant, 
Stripped  on  each  branch  of  flower  and  every  leaf. 

Its  crown,  which  spreads  the  wider  as  it  mounts,  ^0 

"Would  have  been  wondered  at  by  Indians, 
For  its  great  height,  if  in  their  forests  found. 

**  Blessed  art  thou,  0  Griffon,  who  with  beak  43 

Dost  not  break  down  this  wood,  so  sweet  to  taste, 
Because  the  belly  writhes  in  pain  therewith." 

"When  thus  had  cried,  around  the  sturdy  tree,  ^ 

The  others,  then  the  two-fold  animal: 
**Thus  of  all  righteousness  the  seed  is  kept." 

And  turning  to  the  pole  which  he  had  drawn,  *^ 

He  dragged  it  underneath  the  widowed  tree. 
And  what  had  come  from  it,  to  it  left  bound. 

As  when  streams  down  the  great  light  of  the  sun,  52 

Commingled  with  the  rays  that  shine  behind 
The  heavenly  Carp,  our  earthly  plants  begin 

To  swell,  and  each  one  afterwards  takes  on  55 

Afresh  its  coloring,  before  the  sun 
Has  yoked  his  steeds  beneath  another  star ; 

So,  showing  color  less  deep  than  the  rose  58 

But  more  than  violet,  renewed  itself 
This  plant,  which  had  at  first  its  boughs  so  bare. 

I  understood  it  not,  nor  here  is  sung  61 

The  hymn  which  at  the  time  that  people  sang. 
Nor  did  I  hear  that  music  to  the  end. 

Could  I  portray  how  the  unloving  eyes 

Drooped  slumbering,  when  Syrinx '  tale  was  told, — 
The  eyes  to  which  long  vigil  cost  so  dear, — 

E'en  as  a  painter  from  his  model  paints 
"Would  I  depict  how  I  then  fell  asleep ; 
Who  would  do  that  must  picture  slumber  well. 

Therefore  I  pass  to  when  I  woke,  and  say 
That  splendor  rent  apart  my  veil  of  sleep. 


64 


67 


70 


284  THE  DIVINE  COMEDY 

And  one  who  cried:  "Arise!  what  doest  thou?" 

To  see  some  flowerets  of  the  apple-tree,  73 

Which  makes  the  angels  greedy  for  its  fruit, 
And  makes  perpetual  marriage-feasts  in  heaven, 

Peter  and  John  and  James  were  led  by  One,  76 

And  being  overcome,  came  to  themselves 
Hearing  what  words  had  broken  deeper  sleep, 

And  saw  their  company  had  now  grown  less,  79 

"With  Moses  and  Elias  no  more  there, 
And  changed  their  Master's  raiment,  as  before; 

As  such  an  one,  I  woke,  and  saw  in  pity  82 

One  standing  over  me, — her,  who  had  been 
The  first  to  guide  my  steps  along  the  stream, — 

And,  all  in  doubt,  said:  ''Where  is  Beatrice?"  85 

Then  she  replied:  ''Behold  her,  seated  there 
Beneath  the  tree's  fresh  leaves,  upon  its  root. 

Behold  the  company  surrounding  her;  88 

The  others  in  the  Griffon's  train  are  mounting. 
Singing  a  sweeter  song  and  more  profound." 

And  if  she  further  spoke  I  know  not  now,  W 

Because  already  she  was  in  my  sight. 
Who  had  closed  up  my  mind  to  other  thought. 

Alone  she  sat  upon  the  ground  itself,  W 

Like  one  left  there  as  guardian  of  the  car, 
Which  I  had  seen  the  two-fold  One  bind  fast. 

Around  her  in  a  ring  the  seven  nymphs  ^7 

I\Iade  of  themselves  a  wall,  holding  those  lamps 
From  Aquilo  and  Auster  both  secure. 

*'A  forest-dweller  here  a  little  while,  1W> 

Thou  Shalt  with  me  for  aye  be  citizen 
Of  that  Rome,  where  a  Roman  too  is  Christ. 

To  profit  then  the  world  of  evil  life  108 

Fix  now  thine  eyes  upon  the  car,  and  when 
Thou  hast  returned,  write  down  what  thou  hast  seen.*' 


PURGATORIO,  XXXII  285 

Thus  Beatrice;  and  I,  who  at  the  feet  106 

Of  her  commands  was  all  devout,  gave  heed 

With  mind  and  eyes,  as  she  made  known  her  will. 
Never  with  such  swift  motion  from  dense  clouds  109 

Descended  fire,  when  it  was  coming  down 

From  that  confine  which  stretches  most  remote, 
As  I  saw  then  swoop  down  the  Bird  of  Jove  112 

All  through  the  tree,  and  tear  away  the  bark 

As  well  as  fiowers  and  new  foliage; 
And  smote  upon  the  car  with  all  his  might,  115 

"Whereon  it  reeled,  as  in  a  storm  a  ship 

Is  beaten  by  the  waves  on  every  side; 
Then  into  the  body  of  the  vehicle  118 

Triumphal,  I  saw  leaping,  a  she-fox, 

Which  seemed  as  if  to  fast  from  all  good  food ; 
But,  then  rebuking  her  for  ugly  sins,  121 

My  Lady  made  her  turn  in  such  a  flight. 

As  with  her  fleshless  bones  was  possible. 
Then,  downward  by  the  way  it  came  at  first  124 

I  saw  the  eagle  to  the  chariot's  ark 

Descend,  and  leave  it  feathered  from  itself. 
And  as  a  voice  from  an  afflicted  heart,  127 

I  heard  one  come  from  heaven,  saying  thus : 

''Thou  art  ill-laden,  0  my  little  bark!" 
And  then  it  seemed  to  me  the  earth  had  opened  i^O 

Between  the  wheels,  and  forth  a  dragon  came. 

Who  upward  through  the  chariot  thrust  his  tail; 
And  like  a  wasp  that  draws  away  its  sting,  133 

Now  drawing  his  malignant  tail,  he  drew 

The  chariot  floor  in  part,  and  wandered  off. 
That  which  remained,  like  fertile  land  with  grass,  136 

Covered  itself  anew  with  feathers  given 

Perchance  with  holy  and  benign  intent, 
And  with  them  were  the  pole  and  both  the  wheels  139 


286  THE  DIVINE  COMEDY 

New-covered  in  so  short  a  time,  the  mouth 
Is  longer  open  for  one  sigh  breathed  forth. 

When  thus  transformed  the  holy  edifice  1^ 

Then  put  forth  heads  upon  its  parts,  with  three 
Above  the  pole  and  at  each  corner  one. 

The  first  had  horns,  as  oxen ;  but  the  four  1^ 

Had  on  the  forehead  but  a  single  horn ; 
A  monster  such  as  this  was  never  seen ; 

And  as  a  fortress  on  a  mountain  height,  1^ 

Upon  this  seemed  to  me  to  sit  secure 
A  shameless  harlot  with  quick-turning  eyes. 

As  if  he  would  not  be  deprived  of  her,  151 

I  saw  a  giant  standing  at  her  side. 
And  they  would  kiss  each  other  now  and  then ; 

But  since  her  lustful,  wandering  eye  had  turned  ^^^ 

In  my  direction,  that  fierce  paramour 
Had  scourged  her  from  her  crown  unto  her  feet. 

Then  full  of  jealousy  and  cruel  rage,  157 

He  loosed  the  monster,  and  on  through  the  wood 
Dragged  this  so  far,  that  he  with  that  alone 

Screened  the  strange  beast  and  harlot  from  my  view.    ^^^ 


CANTO  XXXIII 

^^Deus,  venerunt  gentes/^  group  by  group, 
Now  three,  now  four,  the  ladies  had  begun 
In  tears  to  sing  as  a  sweet  psalmody, 

And  Beatrice,  compassionate,  with  sighs 
Was  listening,  in  aspect  such,  that  more 
Had  Mary  scarcely  changed  before  the  cross. 

But  when  the  other  virgins  now  gave  place 
To  her  to  speak,  risen  she  stood  upright, 
And  answered,  of  a  color  like  to  flame: 


PURGATORIO,  XXXIII  287 

^^Modicum,  et  non  videhitis  me,  10 

Et  iterum,  beloved  sisters  mine, 
Modicum,  et  vos  videhitis  me/' 

And  then  before  her  she  made  go  the  seven,  33 

And  by  a  sign  bade  follow  her  myself, 
The  Lady,  and  the  Sage  who  had  remained. 

Thus  she  was  going  onward,  and  I  think  16 

Her  tenth  step  was  not  set  upon  the  ground 
When  she  had  smitten  mine  eyes  with  her  own. 

And  with  a  tranquil  aspect  said  to  me:  19 

' '  Come  faster  so  that  if  I  talk  with  thee, 
Thou  mayst  be  better  placed  for  listening." 

"When,  as  my  duty  was,  I  was  by  her,  22 

She  said:  ''Brother,  why  venturest  thou  not 
To  question  me,  now  that  thou  art  with  me  T ' 

Their  lot,  who  with  exceeding  reverence  25 

In  presence  of  their  betters  have  to  speak, 
And  bring  not  to  their  teeth  their  words  alive. 

Was  like  to  mine,  when  with  imperfect  speech  28 

Thus  I  began:  ''My  Lady,  all  my  need 
You  know,  and  what  is  good  for  it. '  *    Then  she : 

*'From  fear  as  well  as  shame  it  is  my  will  31 

That  thou  henceforward  disengage  thyself, 
So  that  thou  speak  no  more  like  one  who  dreams. 

Know  that  the  vessel  which  the  serpent  broke  34 

Was  and  is  not ;  but  let  him  think,  who  bears 
The  blame  of  it,  God's  vengeance  fears  not  sops. 

Not  for  all  time  shall  be  without  an  heir  37 

The  eagle  who  gave  feathers  to  the  car. 
By  which  it  first  grew  monstrous,  then  a  prey ; 

For  I  see  certainly,  and  therefore  tell,  40 

A  time  is  granted  us,  by  stars  now  near 
Free  from  all  hindrance  and  impediment. 

When  a  five  hundred,  ten  and  five  sent  down  43 


288  THE  DIVINE  COMEDY 

By  God,  shall  slay,  with  her  who  has  usurped, 

The  giant  who  is  sharer  in  her  sin. 
If  thou  be  less  persuaded  by  my  words,  ^ 

Obscure  as  those  of  Themis  or  the  Sphinx, 

Because  like  theirs  they  cloud  the  intellect, 
The  facts  shall  soon  become  the  Naiades  *• 

And  solve  this  hard  enigma  without  harm 

Either  to  flocks  or  to  the  growing  grain. 
Do  thou  take  note;  and,  as  I  utter  them,  52 

See  that  thou  mark  these  words  for  those  who  live 

The  life  that  is  a  running  unto  death ; 
And  keep  in  mind,  when  thou  dost  write  them  down,    55 

Not  to  conceal  how  thou  hast  seen  the  plant 

Which  here  has  been  despoiled  a  second  time; 
For  whosoever  breaks  or  plunders  it  58 

With  blasphemy  of  deed  does  God  offence, 

Who  made  it  holy  for  His  use  alone. 
For  biting  it,  in  pain  and  in  desire  ^^ 

Five  thousand  years  and  more  the  first  soul  longed 

For  Him,  who  punished  in  Himself  the  bite. 
Thy  wit  is  sleeping,  if  it  fail  to  judge  ^ 

That  for  especial  cause  it  rises  up 

To  such  great  height  with  its  inverted  top. 
And  if  it  had  not  been  for  the  vain  thoughts  '^ 

Like  Elsa's  water  round  about  thy  mind, 

And  if  their  joy  were  not  a  Py ramus 
To  the  mulberry,  thou  wouldst  have  morally,  70 

Through  incidents  so  manifold  alone. 

Seen  God  was  just,  by  the  forbidden  tree. 
But,  as  I  see  thee  in  thine  intellect  ^^ 

Made  as  of  stone,  and,  stony,  darkened  so, 

The  light  of  what  I  say  is  dazzling  thee, 
I  also  will  that  thou  shouldst  bear  it  hence,  ^^ 

If  not  in  words,  yet  painted  in  thy  mind, 


PUKGATORIO,  XXXIII  289 

Even  as  pilgrims  bring  the  palm- wreathed  staff/' 
And  then  I  said:  ''Like  wax  beneath  the  seal,  79 

That  changes  not  the  figure  pressed  on  it, 

My  brain  has  now  received  its  stamp  from  you. 
But  why  so  high  above  my  vision  soar  82 

Your  words,  that  I  so  long  for,  and  my  eyes 

But  lose  the  more,  the  more  they  strive  for  them?'* 
* '  That  thou  mayst  come  to  know, ' '  she  said,  ' '  that  school  ^^ 

Which  thou  hast  followed,  and  mayst  see  how  far 

Its  teaching  has  the  power  to  follow  me. 
And  see  your  ways  are  separate  as  far  88 

From  those  of  God,  as  is  the  earth  below 

From  the  swift  heaven  that  is  placed  most  high. ' ' 
"Whereon  I  answered :  "I  remember  not  91 

That  ever  I  estranged  myself  from  you. 

Nor  am  I  conscious  of  remorse  for  it." 
**And  if  thou  canst  not  bring  it  to  thy  mind,"  ^^ 

She  answered  with  a  smile,  ''remember  now 

It  was  this  very  day  that  thou  didst  drink 
Of  Lethe ;  and,  if  fire  is  proved  by  smoke,  ^7 

This  thy  forgetfulness  makes  evident 

That  fault  was  in  thy  will,  elsewhere  intent. 
And  verily  henceforth  my  words  shall  be  100 

Naked  to  thee,  as  far  as  shall  befit 

That  I  uncover  them  to  thy  rude  sight." 
And  now  more  flashing  and  with  slower  steps  103 

The  sun  had  reached  the  noon-day  circle 's  height, — 

With  the  beholder  changing  here  and  there, — 
When,  like  the  one  who  goes  ahead  as  guide  106 

And  stops,  if  he  find  any  novelty. 

Or  trace  of  one,  the  seven  ladies  stopped 
Beside  the  margin  of  a  shadow,  pale  109 

As  that  which  'neath  green  leaves  and  boughs  of  black 

The  cold  streams  have  above  them  in  the  Alps. 


290  THE  DIVINE  COMEDY 

In  front  of  them  Euphrates  seemed  to  me  112 

To  rise  with  Tigris  from  a  single  spring, 

And  then  part  company,  like  lingering  friends. 
**0  Light,  0  Glory  of  the  human  race,  115 

What  water  is  it,  that  is  here  poured  forth 

From  one  beginning,  and  divides  itself?" 
To  such  a  prayer  was  answered  me :  * '  Beseech  118 

Matilda,  that  she  tell  it  thee;"  and  then 

Replied,  as  one  who  frees  herself  from  blame, 
The  Lady  beautiful :  *  *  This  thing  and  others  121 

I  have  made  known  to  him,  and  I  am  sure 

That  Lethe's  water  hid  them  not  from  him." 
And  Beatrice:  ''Perhaps  a  greater  care,  124 

"Which  oftentimes  bereaves  of  memory, 

Has  made  the  vision  of  his  mind  grow  dim. 
But  yonder  see  Eunoe  flowing  down ;  127 

Lead  him  to  it,  and  there,  as  is  thy  wont. 

Quicken  anew  in  him  his  swooning  power." 
And  as  a  gentle  soul  makes  no  excuse,  1^0 

But  lets  another's  will  become  her  own, 

As  soon  as  it  is  outwardly  disclosed, 
So  then  the  Fair  One  took  me  by  the  hand, 

And,  moving  onward,  said  to  Statins, 

In  manner  as  a  lady :  * '  Come  with  him !  * ' 
If  I  had,  reader,  longer  space  to  write, 

I  would  at  least  in  part  sing  the  sweet  draught. 

Which  never  would  have  left  me  satisfied; 
But  inasmuch  as  all  the  leaves  are  full  IW 

That  for  this  second  canticle  were  planned, 

The  curb  of  art  lets  me  go  on  no  further. 
I  came  again  from  that  most  holy  wave  1*2 

So  made  anew,  even  as  plants  are  fresh 

With  the  fresh  life  of  their  fresh  foliage, 
Pure  and  disposed  to  mount  unto  the  stars.  1*^ 


188 


186 


PARADISO 


PARADISO 


CANTO  I 


The  glory  of  the  One  who  moves  all  things 

Penetrates  through  the  universe,  resplendent 

In  one  part  more  and  in  another  less. 
I  have  been  in  the  heaven  which  receives  * 

Most  of  His  light;  and  seen  things,  which  whoso 

Descends  from  there  above  neither  knows  how 
Nor  has  the  power  to  tell ;  for,  drawing  near  7 

Its  own  desire,  our  intellect  goes  in 

So  deeply,  memory  can  not  follow  it. 
Howbeit,  whatever  of  the  holy  realm  10 

I  had  the  power  to  treasure  in  my  mind. 

That  shall  be  now  the  matter  of  my  song. 
0  good  Apollo,  for  this  final  labor  ^3 

Make  of  me  such  a  vessel  of  thy  worth 

As  thou  wouldst  have  for  the  loved  laurel  gift. 
Thus  far  one  summit  of  Parnassus  was  ^^ 

Enough  for  me,  but  now  with  both  I  need 

To  enter  the  arena  that  remains. 
Enter  this  breast  of  mine,  and  do  thou  breathe  ^^ 

In  such  wise  as  when  thou  from  out  the  sheath 

Of  his  limbs  drewest  Marsyas.    0  Power 
Divine,  if  thou  so  lend  thyself  to  me  22 

That  I  the  shadow  of  the  blessed  realm 

Imprinted  in  my  head  make  manifest. 
Thou  shalt  see  me  come  to  thy  chosen  tree 


25 


294  THE  DIVINE  COMEDY 

And  crown  myself  there  with  those  leaves,  of  which 

The  matter  and  thyself  shall  make  me  worthy. 
So  rarely,  Father,  do  men  gather  them  28 

For  triumph  or  of  Caesar  or  of  poet, — 

A  fault,  and  to  the  shame  of  human  wills, — 
That  the  Peneian  leaf  should  bring  forth  joy  31 

Within  the  joyous  Delphic  deity. 

When  it  gives  man  a  longing  for  itself. 
A  great  flame  follows  up  a  little  spark ;  34 

Perhaps  with  better  voices  after  me 

Prayer  shall  be  made,  for  Cyrrha  to  respond. 
The  world's  lamp  rises  up  to  mortals  through  37 

Different  passages;  but  from  the  one 

Where  with  three  crosses  are  four  circles  joined, 
With  better  course  and  with  a  better  star  ^ 

Conjoined  it  issues,  and  the  mundane  war 

Tempers  and  seals  the  better  in  its  way. 
Such  passage  was  it  nearly,  that  had  made  ^ 

There  morning  and  here  evening;  and  all 

That  hemisphere  was  white ;  the  other  part 
Was  black,  when  I  saw  Beatrice  now  turned  *• 

To  her  left  side  and  gazing  on  the  sun ; 

Eagle  ne'er  fixed  himself  upon  it  so. 
And  even  as  a  second  ray  is  wont  *• 

To  issue  from  the  first  and  remount  upward, 

Like  to  a  pilgrim  wishing  to  return; 
So  of  her  action  through  the  eyes  poured  in  M 

To  my  imagination,  mine  was  made. 

And  on  the  sun,  beyond  our  wont,  I  fixed 
My  eyes.    There  much  is  granted  to  our  powers  55 

Which  here  is  not,  in  virtue  of  the  place 

Made  the  due  habitation  of  mankind. 
Not  long  could  I  endure  it,  nor  so  briefly  W 

But  that  I  saw  it  sparkle  round  about, 


PARADISO,  I  295 

Like  boiling  iron  coming  from  the  fire. 
And  of  a  sudden  day  seemed  joined  to  day,  ^1 

As  if  the  One  who  has  the  power  had  now 

Adorned  the  heaven  with  another  sun. 
Beatrice  stood  with  her  eyes  wholly  fixed  ^ 

On  the  eternal  wheels ;  and  I  on  her 

Had  fixed  my  eyes,  removed  from  there  above. 
Gazing  on  her  such  I  became  within  67 

As  Glaucus  when  he  tasted  grass  that  made 

Him  consort  in  the  sea  of  other  gods. 
Words  can  not  tell  how  man  grows  more  than  man ;         70 

May  this  example  then  suffice  to  him 

For  whom  grace  hath  in  store  experience. 
If  I  was  only  what  of  me  thou  last  "^3 

Didst  make,  0  Love  that  governest  the  heavens. 

Thou  knowest,  who  with  Thy  light  didst  lift  me  up. 
When  the  revolving,  which  Thou  longed-for  makest  ^^ 

Eternal,  drew  my  thought  unto  itself 

With  harmony  accorded  and  assigned 
By  Thee,  so  much  of  heaven  then  appeared  79 

Enkindled  with  the  sun's  flame,  that  ne'er  rain 

Nor  river  made  a  lake  spread  out  so  wide. 
The  newness  of  the  sound  and  the  great  light  82 

Kindled  in  me  desire  to  know  their  cause 

With  keenness  such  as  I  had  never  felt. 
Whence  she,  who  saw  me  as  I  see  myself,  85 

To  put  to  rest  my  agitated  mind, 

Opened  her  lips  ere  I  did  mine  to  ask ; 
And  she  began :  ' '  Thy  self  thou  makest  dense  88 

With  false  imagining,  so  that  thou  seest 

Not  what  thou  wouldst  see,  hadst  thou  cast  that  off. 
Thou  art  not  on  the  earth,  as  thou  belie  vest ;  91 

But  lightning,  flying  from  its  proper  site. 

Ne'er  sped  as  thou  who  art  returning  thither. '' 


296  THE  DIVINE  COMEDY 

If  by  the  brief,  fond  words  she  spoke  with  smiles  ^* 

I  was  divested  of  my  first  doubt,  now 

I  was  the  more  entangled  with  a  new 
Within  me,  and  I  said:  ''Already  I  ®7 

Bested  content  from  wondering  much,  but  now 

I  wonder  how  bodies  as  light  as  these 
I  can  transcend. ' '    Whereon  with  pitying  sigh  100 

She  turned  her  eyes  toward  me  with  the  look 

A  mother  casts  on  her  delirious  child. 
And  she  began:  ''AH  things  existing  have  ^^^ 

Order  among  themselves,  and  this  is  form. 

Which  makes  the  universe  like  unto  God. 
Herein  the  exalted  creatures  see  the  trace  106 

Of  the  Eternal  Worth,  which  is  the  end 

Whereto  the  mentioned  order  is  ordained. 
Within  that  order  that  I  indicate  ^^ 

All  natures  tend  to  move  by  diverse  lots 

As  more  or  less  near  to  their  origin ; 
Wherefore  their  motion  is  to  diverse  ports  1^2 

0  'er  the  great  sea  of  being,  and  each  one 

With  instinct  given  it  that  bears  it  on. 
This  bears  away  the  fire  toward  the  moon ;  115 

This  is  the  motive  force  in  mortal  hearts; 

This  binds  together  and  unites  the  earth. 
J^ot  only  the  created  things  which  lack  118 

Intelligence  doth  this  bow  arrow  forth. 

But  those  possessing  intellect  and  love. 
The  Providence  ordaining  all  doth  make  121 

With  its  own  light  that  heaven  ever  quiet 

In  which  revolves  the  one  of  greatest  speed. 
And  now  to  that  as  an  appointed  site  12* 

Are  we  borne  by  the  power  of  that  cord 

Which  to  a  joyful  mark  directs  whatever 
It  shoots.    In  truth,  as  form  ofttimes  doth  not  127 


PARADISO,  II  297 

Accord  with  the  intention  of  the  art, 

Because  the  deaf  material  answers  not: 
So  from  this  course  the  creature  will  at  times  130 

Depart,  that  has  the  power,  though  thus  impelled, 

To  bend  away  toward  another  part, — 
Even  as  one  may  see  the  fire  to  fall  133 

Out  of  a  cloud, — if  the  first  impetus. 

Wrenched  by  false  pleasure,  turn  it  to  the  earth. 
Thou  shouldst  not  marvel,  if  I  rightly  judge,  136 

At  thine  ascending,  more  than  at  a  stream 

That  from  high  mountain-top  flows  to  the  base. 
It  were  a  marvel  in  thee,  if,  deprived  139 

Of  hindrance,  thou  wert  seated  down  below, 

As  quiet  in  living  fire  would  be  on  earth." 
Thereon  she  turned  her  face  again  toward  heaven.  1^2 


CANTO  II 

0  YE,  who  in  a  very  little  bark. 

Eager  to  listen,  have  been  following 

Behind  my  ship  that  singing  makes  its  way, 
Turn  back  to  look  again  upon  your  shores;  * 

Put  you  not  out  to  sea,  lest  it  befall 

That,  losing  me,  ye  should  remain  astray. 
The  water  which  I  take,  was  never  sailed ;  7 

Minerva  breathes,  Apollo  is  my  guide. 

And  Muses  nine  point  out  to  me  the  Bears. 
Ye  other  few  who  in  due  time  have  lifted  10 

Your  necks  for  angels'  bread,  on  which  man  lives 

Below,  but  never  knows  satiety. 
Ye  may  well  send  over  the  deep,  salt  sea  13 

Your  vessel  that  doth  in  my  furrow  keep 

Before  the  water  that  grows  smooth  again. 


298  THE  DIVINE  COMEDY 

Those  glorious  men  who  went  across  the  sea  1* 

To  Colchis  marveled  not  as  ye  shall  do, 

When  they  saw  Jason  to  a  ploughman  turned. 
The  concreated  and  perpetual  thirst  ^^ 

For  that  realm  in  God's  image  bore  us  on 

Almost  as  swift  as  ye  see  heaven  move. 
Beatrice  upward  gazed,  and  I  on  her ;  22 

And  in  the  time  perchance  a  quarrel  takes 

To  hit  and  fly  and  be  loosed  from  the  notch, 
I  saw  that  I  had  come  where  a  strange  thing  25 

Drew  to  itself  my  sight ;  and  therefore  she. 

From  whom  no  working  of  my  mind  could  hide, 
Toward  me  turned,  as  glad  as  beautiful.  28 

*' Direct  thy  grateful  mind  to  God,"  she  said, 

*'Who  with  the  first  star  has  united  us." 
It  seemed  to  me  that  there  was  covering  us  31 

A  lucid,  dense,  solid  and  polished  cloud, 

As  it  were  a  diamond  smitten  by  the  sun. 
Within  itself  had  the  eternal  pearl  W 

Received  us,  as  in  water  is  received 

A  ray  of  light,  remaining  still  as  one. 
If  I  was  body, — and  man  knows  not  here  *7 

How  one  dimension  brooked  another,  as 

Must  be  if  body  into  body  glide, — 
The  more  should  the  desire  enkindle  us  *0 

To  see  that  Essence,  in  which  is  beheld 

How  God  and  our  own  nature  were  made  one. 
Then  shall  be  seen  that  which  we  hold  by  faith,  ^ 

Not  demonstrated,  but  known  of  itself, 

Like  to  the  primal  truth  that  man  believes. 
I  answered :  * '  Lady,  with  my  utmost  power 

Devoutly  do  I  render  thanks  to  Him, 

Who  has  removed  me  from  the  mortal  world. 
But  tell  me  what  the  dusky  marks  upon 


46 


PARADISO,  II  299 

This  body  are,  which  cause  men  there  below 

Upon  the  earth  to  fable  about  Cain." 
She  smiled  a  little,  and  then  said  to  me :  52 

' '  If  the  opinion  held  by  mortal  men 

Errs  where  the  key  of  sense  does  not  unlock. 
Surely  the  shafts  of  wonder  ought  not  now  55 

To  pierce  thee;  since,  the  senses  leading  on. 

Thou  seest  that  the  reason's  wings  are  short. 
But  tell  me  what  thou  think  'st  of  it  thyself. ' '  58 

And  I:  "What  seems  to  us  diverse  up  here, 

I  think  is  caused  by  bodies  rare  and  dense." 
And  she :  ' '  Thou  shalt  see  surely  quite  submerged  ^1 

In  error  thy  belief,  if  thou  heed  well 

The  adverse  argument  that  I  shall  make. 
The  eighth  sphere  shows  you  many  lights,  which  both      64 

In  quality  and  quantity  may  be 

Observed  to  be  of  aspects  various. 
If  rarity  and  density  worked  this,  67 

One  single  virtue  would  there  be  in  all. 

Allotted  more  or  less  or  equally. 
Virtues  that  are  diverse  must  be  the  fruits  70 

Of  formal  principles,  and  these,  save  one. 

Would  by  thy  reasoning's  sequence  be  destroyed. 
Further,  if  of  that  duskiness  the  cause  73 

Were  rarity,  of  which  thou  askest,  then 

Either  this  planet  through  and  through  would  lack 
In  part  its  matter  thus ;  or,  as  a  body  76 

Divides  the  fat  and  lean,  so  would  this  one 

Have  in  its  volume  alternating  leaves. 
Were  the  first  true,  it  would  be  manifest  79 

In  the  eclipses  of  the  sun  by  light 

Then  shining  through,  as  when  elsewhere  it  falls 
On  what  is  rare.    This  is  not  so ;  hence  we  82 

Must  view  the  other,  and  if  I  refute 


300  THE  DIVINE  COMEDY 

That  also,  thy  opinion  is  proved  false. 
If  then  this  rarity  does  not  pass  through,  85 

There  must  needs  be  a  limit,  beyond  which 

Its  contrary  lets  it  no  further  pass. 
And  thence  another  body's  ray  is  thrown  88 

Backward,  as  color  turns  back  through  a  glass 

Which  hides  behind  it  lead.    Now  thou  wilt  say 
That  there  the  ray  doth  manifest  itself  ®1 

Dimmer  than  in  the  other  parts,  because 

It  is  reflected  there  from  further  back. 
From  this  objection  can  experiment —  ^ 

The  wonted  spring  of  streams  of  human  arts — 

Deliver  thee,  if  ever  thou  essay. 
Take  thou  three  mirrors;  two  remove  from  thee  ^7 

An  equal  distance,  and  between  them  let 

The  other  more  remote  be  in  thy  sight. 
Turning  toward  them,  have  placed  behind  thy  back        ^00 

A  light  that  shall  the  three  illuminate. 

And  striking  on  them  all  come  back  to  thee. 
Although  the  further  image  stretch  not  out  103 

In  quantity  so  large,  thou  shalt  see  there 

How  it  must  needs  be  brilliant  equally. 
Now,  as  beneath  the  strokes  of  the  warm  rays,  106 

What  underlies  the  snow  is  left  all  bare 

Both  of  the  former  color  and  the  cold, 
Thee,  who  art  left  thus  in  thine  intellect,  109 

I  would  inform  with  light  so  full  of  life 

That  it  shall  tremble  as  thou  look'st  on  it. 
Within  the  heaven  of  the  peace  divine  112 

Revolves  a  body,  in  whose  virtue  lies 

The  being  of  all  that  which  it  contains. 
The  heaven  following,  that  has  so  many  sights,  115 

Imparts  that  being  to  diverse  essences 

From  it  distinguished  and  by  it  contained; 


PARADISO,  II  301 


The  other  spheres  through  special  difference  US 

Dispose  the  powers  distinct,  within  themselves, 
To  their  own  ends  and  sowing  of  their  seed. 

These  organs  of  the  universe  proceed  121 

Thus,  as  thou  seest  now,  from  grade  to  grade. 
For  from  above  they  take  and  downward  work. 

Pay  thou  such  heed  to  me,  how  I  proceed  124 

Through  this  place  to  the  truth  which  thou  desirest. 
That  thou  canst  later  keep  the  ford  alone. 

The  holy  circles'  movement  and  their  virtue,  127 

As  from  the  workman  comes  the  hammer's  art. 
Must  from  the  blessed  movers  be  breathed  forth; 

And  from  the  deep  mind  turning  it,  the  heaven  130 

Which  with  so  many  lights  is  beautiful, 
Taking  the  image,  makes  thereof  a  seal. 

And  as  the  soul  that  is  within  your  dust  133 

Resolves  itself  through  members  different 
And  unto  diverse  potencies  conformed. 

In  such  a  way  doth  the  Intelligence  136 

Spread  through  the  stars  its  goodness  multiplied, 
Itself  revolving  on  itS  unity. 

Virtue  diverse  makes  a  diverse  alloy  139 

With  the  precious  body  that  it  vivifies, 
With  which,  as  life  in  you,  it  is  bound  up. 

Because  of  the  glad  nature  whence  it  flows  1^2 

The  mingled  virtue  through  the  body  shines. 
As  through  the  living  eye  one's  happiness. 

From  this  comes  that,  which  between  light  and  light      1^5 
Seems  different,  not  from  aught  dense  or  rare; 
This  as  the  formal  principle  brings  forth 

In  goodness  due  the  turbid  and  the  clear."  148 


302  THE  DIVINE  COMEDY 


CANTO  III 

That  sun,  which  first  with  love  had  warmed  my  breast, 

Fair  truth's  sweet  aspect  had  disclosed  to  me 

By  proof  and  by  disproof;  and  that  I  might 
Confess  myself  corrected  and  assured,  * 

As  far  as  was  befitting  I  raised  up 

My  head,  to  make  expression,  more  erect. 
But  there  appeared  a  vision,  which  held  me  ^ 

So  closely  to  itself  to  look  on  it. 

That  my  confession  I  remembered  not. 
As  through  transparent,  polished  glasses,  or  10 

Through  waters  clear  and  tranquil,  not  so  deep 

As  that  the  bottom  should  be  lost  to  sight. 
The  outlines  of  our  faces  are  returned  1* 

So  faint,  that  on  a  brow  of  white  a  pearl 

Comes  to  our  pupils  not  less  speedily ; 
Such  I  saw  many  a  face,  eager  to  speak;  !• 

Whence  I  rushed  to  a  fault  counter  to  that 

Which  kindled  love  between  the  man  and  spring. 
At  once,  as  soon  as  I  had  noted  them,  19 

Deeming  that  they  were  mirrored  likenesses. 

To  see  whose  they  might  be  I  turned  my  eyes; 
And  naught  I  saw ;  and  forward  turned  them  now  22 

Directly  to  the  light  of  that  sweet  guide, 

Whose  holy  eyes  were  glowing  as  she  smiled. 
** Wonder  not  that  I  smile,"  she  said  to  me,  ^ 

"After  thy  childlike  thought,  because  thy  foot 

Does  not  yet  trust  itself  upon  the  truth, 
But  turns  thee,  as  it  is  wont,  to  vacancy.  ^ 

Real  substances  are  these  which  thou  dost  see, 

For  vows  they  kept  not  relegated  here. 
So,  speak  with  them,  and  hear  them,  and  believe,  '^ 


PARADISO,  III  303 

For  the  true  light  that  gives  them  peace  grants  not 

That  from  itself  they  turn  aside  their  feet." 
And  I  turned  to  the  shade  that  seemed  to  have  34 

Most  eagerness  to  talk,  and  like  a  man 

Bewildered  through  too  great  desire,  began: 
**0  well-created  spirit,  who  in  the  rays  37 

Of  life  eternal  dost  the  sweetness  feel 

Which  is,  untasted,  never  understood. 
It  were  a  gracious  act  to  me,  if  thou  40 

Content  me  with  thy  name  and  with  your  lot. '  * 

Whereon  she,  promptly  and  with  laughing  eyes: 
**Our  charity  locks  not  the  door  upon  43 

A  just  wish,  any  more  than  that  which  wills 

That  all  its  court  should  be  like  to  itself. 
I  was  a  virgin  sister  in  the  world ;  46 

And  if  thy  memory  duly  search  itself, 

Being  more  beautiful  will  hide  me  not 
From  thee,  but  thou  wilt  recognize  Piccarda,  49 

Who  placed  here  with  these  other  blessed  ones 

Am  blessed  in  the  slowest  of  the  spheres. 
As  our  affections  are  inflamed  alone  52 

In  what  is  pleasing  to  the  Holy  Spirit, 

They  joy  in  being  formed  as  He  ordains. 
And  this  lot,  which  seems  so  far  down,  is  given  55 

To  us  because  of  our  neglected  vows, 

In  some  particular  left  unfulfilled." 
Whence  I  to  her:  ''Your  wondrous  aspects  have  ^8 

A  splendor  of  I  know  not  what  divine, 

Transmuting  you  from  what  I  once  conceived. 
Hence  I  was  tardy  in  remembering;  61 

But  what  thou  tellest  me  assists  me  so 

That  I  refigure  thee  more  clearly  now. 
But  yet  tell  me :  ye  who  are  happy  here,  ^ 

Do  ye  desire  a  more  exalted  place 


304  THE  DIVINE  COMEDY 

That  ye  may  see  more,  or  make  you  more  friends  f 
She  with  those  other  shades  first  smiled  a  little ;  ^^ 

After  that  answered  me  so  joyously, 

That  she  seemed  one  who  burned  in  love 's  first  fire : 
'*  Brother,  virtue  of  charity  doth  put  ^^ 

Our  will  to  rest,  and  make  us  only  wish 

For  what  we  have,  and  thirst  for  naught  beside. 
If  we  desired  to  have  a  higher  place,  73 

Then  our  desires  would  be  discordant  from 

The  will  of  Him  who  bids  us  here  abide. 
Which  thou  shalt  see  can  not  be  in  these  circles,  76 

If  life  in  charity  must  needs  be  here, 

And  if  its  nature  thou  consider  well. 
Nay,  it  is  the  essence  of  this  blessed  being  79 

To  keep  itself  within  the  will  divine, 

By  which  our  wills  themselves  become  as  one. 
So  that  as  we  exist  from  seat  to  seat  82 

Throughout  this  realm,  it  pleases  all  the  realm 

As  it  does  Him,  who  wills  in  us  His  will ; 
And  His  will  is  our  peace ;  it  is  that  sea  85 

Toward  which  in  self-motion  are  all  things. 

What  He  creates,  and  that  which  nature  does. '  * 
It  was  then  clear  to  me  how  everywhere  8® 

In  heaven  is  Paradise,  even  though  the  grace 

Of  the  Chief  Good  rains  not  there  in  one  mode. 
But  as  befalls,  if  one  food  satisfies  ^^ 

And  for  another  still  remains  the  taste, 

That,  giving  thanks  for  that,  we  ask  for  this : 
Even  so  did  I  with  act  and  with  my  words  •* 

To  learn  from  her  what  was  the  web,  in  which 

She  had  not  drawn  the  shuttle  to  the  head. 
**A  perfect  life  and  high  desert  enheavens  •^ 

Above, *^  said  she,  **a  Lady  in  whose  rule 

Some  in  your  world  below  are  habited 


PARADISO,  III  305 

And  veiled,  that  they  till  death  may  watch  and  sleep      1^0 
With  Him,  their  Spouse,  who  every  vow  accepts. 
Conformed  by  love  to  that  which  pleases  Him. 

To  follow  her  I  fled  the  world,  a  child,  103 

And  in  her  habit  I  enclosed  myself. 
And  gave  my  promise  to  her  Order's  way. 

Then  men,  accustomed  more  to  ill  than  good,  1^^ 

From  the  sweet  cloister  dragged  me  forth ;  and  God 
Doth  know  what  afterwards  my  life  became. 

This  other  splendor,  too,  who  shows  herself  1^^ 

To  thee  at  my  right  side,  and  who  with  all 
The  light  of  our  sphere  is  enkindled  now, 

Knows  in  herself  what  of  myself  I  say.  112 

She  was  a  sister,  from  whose  head  likewise 
The  shadow  of  the  sacred  veil  was  taken. 

But  when  she  too  was  turned  back  to  the  world,  H^ 

Her  liking  and  good  usage  set  at  naught, 
The  veil  was  never  loosened  from  her  heart. 

This  is  the  light  of  the  great  Constance,  who  118 

Of  the  second  blast  of  Swabia  conceived 
The  third,  the  final  power. ' '    Thus  unto  me 

She  spoke,  and  thereupon  began  Ave  121 

Maria  singing,  and  still  singing  passed 
From  sight,  like  things  of  weight  through  watery  depths. 

My  gaze,  which  had  been  following  her  as  long  12* 

As  it  was  possible,  w^hen  it  lost  her. 
Unto  the  mark  of  greater  longing  turned, 

Wholly  reverting  now  to  Beatrice;  127 

But  she  flashed  forth  so  brightly  as  I  looked, 
That  at  the  flrst  my  sight  endured  it  not, 

Which  made  me  slower  in  my  questioning.  13^ 


306  THE  DIVINE  COMEDY 


CANTO  IV 

Between  two  viands,  equally  far  off 

And  appetizing,  one  would  starve  to  death 
Ere,  a  free  man,  he  brought  one  to  his  teeth. 

So  would  a  lamb  stand  still  in  equal  dread  * 

Between  the  ravenings  of  two  savage  wolves ; 
So  would  a  dog  stand  still  between  two  does. 

Hence,  if  I  spoke  not,  I  blame  not  myself,  ^ 

Urged  in  an  equal  measure  by  my  doubts, 
Since  it  was  necessary,  nor  commend. 

I  spoke  not,  but  depicted  on  my  face  10 

Was  my  desire,  and  questioning  therewith 
More  ardent  far  than  if  by  speech  distinct. 

So  Beatrice  did  as  erst  Daniel  1* 

When  he  removed  Nebuchadnezzar's  wrath 
Which  caused  in  him  such  unjust  cruelty. 

And  said:  *'I  plainly  see  how  thou  art  drawn  !• 

By  this  and  that  desire,  so  that  thy  care 
In  such  wise  binds  itself,  it  breathes  not  forth. 

Thou  reasonest :  If  the  good  will  endures,  1^ 

Then  by  what  reason  can  man's  violence 
Lessen  for  me  the  measure  of  desert? 

Besides,  a  cause  of  doubt  is  given  thee  M 

In  the  appearance  that  the  souls  return, 
As  it  is  taught  by  Plato,  to  the  stars. 

These  are  the  questions  that  upon  thy  will  W 

Thrust  equally,  and  therefore  I  will  first 
Treat  of  the  one  that  has  the  more  of  gall. 

The  one  most  God-like  of  the  Seraphim,  M 

Moses  and  Samuel  and  either  John 
Which  thou  mayst  choose,  nay,  Mary  even,  say  I, 

Have  not  their  seats  in  other  heaven  than  81 


PARADISO,  IV  307 

Those  spirits  which  just  now  appeared  to  thee, 

Nor  for  their  being,  more  or  fewer  years. 
But  all  make  the  first  circle  beautiful,  34 

And  variously  have  sweet  life,  because 

Of  feeling  more  or  less  the  eternal  breath. 
Here  they  appeared,  not  that  this  sphere  has  been  37 

Allotted  to  them,  but  to  signify 

The  one  of  heaven  of  the  least  ascent. 
Thus  must  your  wit  be  spoken  to,  because 

Only  through  what  is  sensed  it  apprehends 

What  it  then  makes  worthy  of  intellect. 
On  this  account  the  Scripture  condescends 

To  your  capacity,  and  feet  and  hands 

To  God  attributes,  and  means  otherwise; 
And  Holy  Church  in  aspect  like  to  men 

Gabriel  and  Michael  represents  to  you. 

And  him  who  made  Tobias  whole  again. 
That  which  Timaeus  argues  of  the  souls 

Is  not  like  this  which  here  is  to  be  seen. 

Since  it  appears  that  he  thinks  as  he  says. 
He  says  the  soul  returns  to  its  own  star  52 

In  his  belief  that  it  is  severed  thence 

When  nature  has  bestowed  it  as  a  form. 
But  his  opinion  is  of  other  guise,  55 

Perchance,  than  his  words  sound,  and  it  may  have 

Significance  that  one  may  not  deride. 
If  his  thought  is  that  to  these  wheels  return  58 

The  honor  of  their  influence  and  blame. 

Perchance  his  bow  has  hit  upon  some  truth. 
This  principle,  ill-understood,  misled  61 

Nearly  the  whole  world  formerly,  which  then 

Unduly  named  Jove,  Mercury  and  Mars. 
The  other  doubt  disturbing  thee  has  less 

Of  venom  in  it,  since  its  harmfulness 


40 


43 


46 


49 


64 


308  THE  DIVINE  COMEDY 

Could  not  lead  thee  away  from  me  elsewhere. 
That  heaven's  justice  seems  to  be  unjust  ^7 

In  mortal  eyes  is  argument  of  faith, 

Not  of  heretical  iniquity. 
But  inasmuch  as  your  intelligence  ^^ 

Is  well  equipped  to  penetrate  this  truth, 

I  will  content  thee,  as  thou  dost  desire. 
If  it  is  violence  when  the  one  suffering  73 

Contributes  naught  to  that  which  forces  him, 

These  souls  were  not  excused  because  of  that ; 
For  will,  if  it  wills  not,  can  not  be  quenched,  ^6 

But  does  as  nature  does  in  fire,  though  it 

A  thousand  times  be  wrenched  by  violence; 
For  if  it  much  or  little  bend  itself,  79 

It  follows  force ;  and  thus  did  these,  while  able 

Still  to  return  unto  the  holy  place. 
If  it  had  been  that  their  will  was  entire  82 

Such  as  held  Lawrence  on  his  gridiron. 

And  rendered  Mucins  stern  to  his  own  hand. 
It  would  have  driven  them  back  along  the  road  85 

Whence  they  were  dragged,  as  soon  as  they  were  loosed ; 

But  will  of  such  a  firmness  is  too  rare. 
And  by  these  words,  if  thou  hast  gathered  them  88 

As  thou  shouldst  have,  that  argument  is  met 

"Which  would  have  troubled  thee  yet  many  times. 
But  now  another  pass  before  thine  eyes  W 

Crossing  thy  way  is  such,  that  of  thyself 

Thou  wouldst  not  issue  thence  ere  thou  wert  weary. 
I  have  put  in  thy  mind  for  certain,  how  •* 

A  blessed  soul  has  not  the  power  to  lie, 

As  it  is  always  near  the  primal  truth ; 
And  then  thou  mightest  from  Piccarda  hear  ^7 

How  Constance  kept  affection  for  the  veil, ' 

So  that  she  seems  to  contradict  me  here. 


PARADISO,  IV  309 

It  has  happened,  brother,  many  times  ere  now  100 

That,  to  flee  peril,  one  against  desire 

Has  done  that  which  it  was  not  meet  to  do; 
Even  as  Alcmaeon,  whom  his  father  prayed  103 

To  do  so,  slew  his  mother  and  became 

Devoid  of  pity  to  save  piety. 
Concerning  this  I  wish  that  thou  observe  106 

That  force  mingles  with  will,  and  they  effect 

That  the  offences  can  not  be  excused. 
Absolute  will  consents  not  to  the  wrong,  109 

But  yet  consents  in  so  far  as  it  fears. 

If  it  draw  back,  to  fall  to  greater  harm. 
Hence,  when  Piccarda  utters  this,  she  thinks  112 

Of  the  will  absolute,  and  I  of  the  other, 

So  that  we  both  together  speak  the  truth. ' ' 
Such  was  the  rippling  of  the  holy  stream,  115 

"Which  issued  from  the  Fount  whence  all  truth  flows ; 

And  such,  it  set  at  rest  both  my  desires. 
''0  Love  of  the  First  Lover,"  said  I  then,  118 

*  *  0  thou  divine  one,  whose  o  'erflowing  speech 

So  warms  me  that  it  quickens  more  and  more, 
My  own  affection  is  not  of  a  depth  121 

Sufficing  to  repay  you  grace  for  grace; 

May  He,  who  sees  and  can,  respond  for  this ! 
Our  intellect  is  never  satisfied,  124 

I  plainly  see,  unless  truth  be  its  light. 

Outside  of  which  there  is  no  truth  extends. 
It  rests  therein,  as  in  his  lair  a  beast,  127 

As  soon  as  it  is  reached ;  and  it  can  reach  it ; 

If  not,  then  each  desire  would  be  in  vain. 
On  this  account  there  springs  up  like  a  shoot,  1^0 

Doubt  at  the  foot  of  truth,  and  nature  it  is 

That  drives  us  summit-ward  from  height  to  height. 
To  me  this  gives  assurance;  this  bids  me,  133 


310  THE  DIVINE  COMEDY 

Lady,  with  reverence  to  question  you 

Of  other  truth  that  is  obscure  to  me. 
I  fain  would  know  if  man  for  broken  vows  136 

Can  satisfy  you  so  with  other  goods 

That  shall  not  in  your  scales  be  light  of  weight. ' ' 
Beatrice  looked  upon  me  with  her  eyes  139 

Full  of  the  sparks  of  love  and  so  divine, 

That  overcome,  my  power  turned  its  back, 
And  I  was  lost,  as  it  were,  with  eyes  downcast.  ^^ 


CANTO  V 

*  *  If  I  flame  on  thee  in  the  heat  of  love 

Beyond  the  measure  that  on  earth  is  seen 

And  vanquish  so  the  valor  of  thine  eyes. 
Marvel  thou  not  thereat;  for  this  proceeds  * 

From  perfect  sight,  which  as  it  apprehends 

So  moves  its  foot  to  the  apprehended  good. 
I  plainly  see  how  in  thine  intellect  ^ 

There  shines  already  the  eternal  light 

Which,  only  seen,  always  enkindles  love; 
If  any  other  thing  seduce  your  love,  1® 

It  is  naught  but  some  vestige  of  that  light 

111  understood,  that  is  there  shining  through. 
Thou  wouldst  know  whether  for  a  vow  not  kept  1* 

With  other  service  so  much  may  be  done 

As  shall  secure  the  soul  from  lawful  suit.** 
In  such  wise  Beatrice  began  this  chant;  !• 

And  as  a  man  who  breaks  not  off  his  speech, 

Continued  thus  the  holy  reasoning: 
'  *  The  greatest  gift  which  in  His  bounty  God  !• 

Made  at  creation,  and  the  most  conformed 

To  His  own  goodness,  and  which  He  Himself 


PARADISO,  V  311 

Most  prizes,  was  the  freedom  of  the  will,  22 

"Wherewith  the  creatures  with  intelligence 

All,  and  they  only,  were  and  are  endowed. 
Now  will  appear  to  thee,  if  thou  conclude  25 

From  this,  the  high  worth  of  the  vow,  if  such 

That  God  consent  when  thou  consentest;  for 
In  making  compact  between  God  and  man,  28 

Out  of  this  treasure,  such  as  I  have  named, 

Is  made  a  victim,  and  by  its  own  act. 
As  compensation  what  then  can  be  rendered?  31 

Thinkest  thou  to  use  well  what  thou  hast  offered. 

Thou  wouldst  do  good  work  with  ill-gotten  gain. 
Thou  art  now  clear  as  to  the  greater  point ;  34 

But  because  Holy  Church  exempts  in  this. 

Which  seems  against  the  truth  I  have  disclosed. 
Thou  must  still  sit  a  while  at  table,  for  37 

The  solid  food  which  thou  hast  taken  calls 

For  further  aid  to  thee,  digesting  it. 
Open  thy  mind  to  that  which  I  reveal  ^0 

To  thee,  and  close  it  in ;  for  to  have  heard 

And  not  retained  a  thing  is  not  to  know. 
In  the  essence  of  this  sacrifice  two  things  *3 

Are  in  agreement:  one  is  that  of  which 

It  is  made,  the  other  the  agreement's  self. 
This  last  can  never  be  annulled,  except  ^^ 

By  being  kept ;  and  bearing  upon  this 

That  which  was  said  before  is  so  precise; 
Hence  for  the  Hebrews  the  necessity  49 

But  to  make  offering;  although  some  thing 

Thus  offered  might  be  changed,  as  thou  must  know. 
The  former,  shown  then  as  material,  52 

May  well  be  such,  that  one  errs  not,  if  one 

Put  in  its  place  other  material. 
But  let  no  one  at  his  own  judgment  shift  ^5 


312  THE  DIVINE  COMEDY 

The  load  his  shoulder  bears  without  the  turning 

Both  of  the  white,  and  of  the  yellow  key ; 
And  let  him  hold  as  foolish  every  change,  58 

Unless  the  thing  laid  down  be  not  contained 

In  the  one  taken  up,  as  four  in  six. 
Hence  whatsoever  thing  that  weighs  so  much  ^1 

That  by  its  worth  it  bears  down  every  scale, 

Can  with  no  other  outlay  be  redeemed. 
Let  mortals  take  no  vow  in  trifling  mood ;  ^ 

Be  faithful ;  not  perverse  in  doing  so, 

As  Jephthah  was  in  his  first  offering. 
Who  would  have  better  said :  '  I  have  done  ill, '  67 

Than  in  the  keeping  of  the  vow  do  worse ; 

As  foolish  wilt  thou  find  the  Greeks'  great  leader. 
Wherefore  Iphigenia  wept,  that  she  70 

Was  fair  of  face,  and  caused  to  weep  for  her 

Wise  men  and  fools  who  heard  of  such  a  rite. 
Be  ye  more  grave  in  moving,  Christians ;  73 

Be  ye  not  as  a  feather  to  each  wind, 

Nor  trust  by  every  water  to  be  washed. 
Ye  have  the  Old  and  the  New  Testament,  76 

And  of  the  Church  the  Shepherd  is  your  guide; 

For  your  salvation  deem  ye  this  enough. 
If  evil  covetousness  cry  aught  else  79 

To  you,  be  men,  not  silly  sheep,  so  that 

The  Jew  among  you  may  not  laugh  at  you. 
Do  not  ye  act  as  does  the  lamb  that  leaves  82 

Its  mother's  milk  in  silly  wantonness 

To  please  itself,  fighting  against  itself.'* 
Thus  Beatrice  to  me,  as  I  write  down ;  85 

Then  turned  herself  in  fulness  of  desire 

To  where  the  universe  is  most  alive. 
Her  ceasing  and  her  changed  appearance  put  88 

My  eager  mind  to  silence,  though  it  had 


PARADISO,  V  313 

New  questionings  already  to  advance. 
And  even  as  the  arrow  which  has  found  ^1 

The  mark  before  the  string  is  still,  so  we 

Into  the  second  kingdom  had  sped  on. 
My  Lady  I  beheld  so  joyous  here  ^* 

When  she  had  entered  in  this  heaven's  light, 

The  very  planet  grew  more  bright  with  it. 
And  if  the  star  knew  such  a  change,  and  smiled,  ^^ 

What  did  I  then  become,  who  even  by  nature 

Am  so  transmutable  in  every  way! 
As  in  a  fish-pond  which  is  still  and  clear,  ^00 

The  fishes  move  to  what  comes  from  without 

In  such  wise  that  they  deem  it  food  for  them ; 
More  than  a  thousand  splendors  saw  I  thus  ^^^ 

Moving  toward  us,  and  in  each  one  of  them 

Was  heard:  ''Lo,  one  who  shall  increase  our  loves!" 
And  as  each  one  was  coming  up  to  us,  ^^^ 

The  shade  was  seen  in  plenitude  of  joy 

In  the  clear  brightness  issuing  forth  from  it. 
Think,  reader,  if  that  which  is  here  begun,  109 

Should  not  continue,  how  thou  wouldst  then  have 

An  anxious  craving  to  know  more ;  and  thou 
Wilt  of  thyself  perceive  how  I  desired  112 

To  hear  what  their  conditions  were  from  these 

As  soon  as  they  appeared  before  my  eyes, 
' '  0  thou  well-born,  whom  Grace  permits  to  see  H^ 

The  thrones  of  the  eternal  triumph  ere 

Thou  hast  abandoned  the  life  militant, 
The  light  that  through  all  heaven  is  spread  abroad  US 

Enkindles  us;  and  so,  if  thou  desirest 

Enlightenment  of  us,  sate  thee  at  will. ' ' 
Thus  was  I  spoken  to  by  one  among  121 

Those  pious  spirits ;  and  by  Beatrice : 

*' Speak,  speak  securely,  and  trust  them  as  gods." 


314  THE  DIVINE  COMEDY 

*  *  Clearly  I  see  how  thou  dost  nest  thyself  124 

In  thine  own  light,  and  drawest  it  through  thine  eyes, 
Because  they  sparkle  as  thou  smilest;  but 

I  know  not  who  thou  art,  nor  why  thou  hast,  ^27 

0  worthy  soul,  thy  grade  within  this  sphere, 
Veiled  unto  mortals  with  another's  rays." 

This  had  I  said  when  turned  toward  the  light  130 

"Which  first  addressed  me;  whereupon  it  grew 
Brighter  by  far  than  it  had  been  before. 

Even  as  the  sun,  which  by  excess  of  light  133 

Conceals  itself  when  once  the  tempering 
Of  the  dense  vapors  is  consumed  by  heat; 

Through  greater  joy  then  hid  itself  from  me  136 

The  holy  form  in  its  own  radiance, 
And  thus,  closely  enclosed,  it  answered  me 

In  manner  as  the  following  canto  sings.  13^ 


CANTO  VI 

**  Since  Constantine  had  turned  the  eagle  back, 
Counter  to  heaven's  course  which  it  pursued 
Behind  the  ancient  who  had  taken  to  wife 

Lavinia,  two  hundred  years  and  more  * 

The  bird  of  God  remained  on  Europe 's  verge. 
Near  to  the  mountains  whence  it  first  went  forth ; 

And  there  from  hand  to  hand  governed  the  world  ^ 

Beneath  the  shadow  of  the  sacred  wings. 
And  changing  thus  had  come  upon  my  own. 

Caesar  I  was,  and  am  Justinian,  W 

Who,  as  the  Primal  Love  within  me  willed. 
Drew  from  the  laws  what  was  too  much  and  vain ; 

And  ere  I  was  intent  upon  the  work,  13 

I  held  one  nature  was  in  Christ,  not  more, 


PARADISO,  VI  315 


And  with  such  faith  I  was  contented ;  but 
The  blessed  Agapetus,  who  was  then  16 

The  Supreme  Pastor,  with  the  words  he  spoke 

Directed  me  to  purity  of  faith. 
Him  I  believed,  and  what  was  in  his  faith  1^ 

I  see  now  clearly,  even  as  thou  seest 

All  contradiction  to  be  false  and  true. 
As  soon  as  with  the  church  I  moved  my  feet,  22 

It  pleased  God  to  inspire  me,  of  His  Grace, 

"With  this  high  task,  to  which  I  wholly  gave  me, 
Entrusting  to  my  Belisarius  25 

My  arms,  with  whom  was  heaven 's  right  hand  so  joined, 

It  was  a  sign  that  I  myself  should  rest. 
Now  here  to  the  first  question  terminates  28 

My  answer;  but  its  nature  forces  me 

To  follow  it  with  something  further  still. 
That  thou  mayst  see  with  how  much  reason  moves  ^l 

Against  the  standard  that  is  sacrosanct 

Both  who  assumes  and  who  opposes  it; 
What  virtue  makes  it  merit  reverence  34 

Observe."    And  he  began  from  that  time  when. 

To  give  to  it  a  kingdom,  Pallas  died. 
**Thou  knowest  that  it  made  its  dwelling-place  37 

In  Alba  for  three  hundred  years  and  more. 

Till  when  three  against  three  fought  for  it  still. 
Thou  knowest,  from  the  Sabine  women's  wrong  40 

To  Lucrece'  woe,  its  deeds,  in  seven  kings, 

Subduing  neighboring  peoples  round  about. 
Thou  knowest  its  deeds,  by  Roman  heroes  borne  43 

'Gainst  Brennus,  against  Pyrrhus,  and  against 

The  other  princes  and  confederates; 
Whereby  Torquatus  and  that  Quinctius  named  46 

For  locks  unkempt,  Decii  and  Fabii 

Acquired  the  fame  which  gladly  I  embalm. 


316  THE  DIVINE  COMEDY 

It  brought  to  earth  the  Arabs  in  their  pride,  4^ 

Who  in  the  train  of  Hannibal  had  passed 
The  Alpine  rocks,  from  which  thou,  Po,  dost  glide. 

Under  it  in  their  youth  did  Scipio  52 

And  Pompey  triumph;  and  unto  the  hill 
Beneath  which  thou  was  born,  bitter  it  seemed. 

Then,  near  the  time  when  Heaven  wholly  willed  55 

To  bring  the  world  to  its  own  mood  serene, 
Caesar  assumed  it  by  the  will  of  Rome; 

And  what  it  did  from  Var  even  to  Rhine,  58 

Isere  beheld  and  Saone,  and  Seine  beheld, 
And  every  valley  by  which  Rhone  is  filled. 

"When  then  it  did,  Ravenna  left  behind  61 

And  Rubicon  o'erleaped,  was  of  such  flight 
That  neither  tongue  nor  pen  could  follow  it. 

Toward  Spain  it  wheeled  the  host ;  afterwards  toward       64 
Dyrrachium,  and  smote  Pharsalia  so 
That,  on  the  hot  Nile  even,  men  felt  the  pain. 

Antandros  and  the  Simois,  whence  erst  67 

It  came,  it  saw  again,  and  too  the  place 
Where  Hector  lies;  and,  ill  for  Ptolemy, 

Then  shook  itself ;  thence  upon  Juba  swooped  70 

Like  lightning ;  afterwards  turned  toward  your  west 
Where  it  had  heard  the  Pompeys '  trumpet  sound. 

What  with  the  ruler  following  it  did  73 

Brutus  and  Cassius  attest  in  hell; 
It  made  Perugia  grieve,  and  Modena. 

Because  of  it  sad  Cleopatra  still  76 

Is  weeping,  who,  fleeing  in  front  of  it, 
Seized  from  the  viper  sudden  and  black  death. 

With  him  it  sped  even  to  the  Red  Sea  shore ;  79 

By  it  the  world  was  so  composed  in  peace, 
That  upon  Janus  was  his  temple  closed. 

But  what  the  ensign  that  now  makes  me  speak  ®2 


PARADISO,  VI  317 

Had  done  before  and  later  was  to  do 

Throughout  the  mortal  realm  subject  to  it, 
Grows  in  appearance  little  and  obscure,  85 

If  it  be  viewed  in  the  third  Caesar's  hand 

With  eye  unclouded  and  affection  pure ; 
Because  the  Living  Justice  which  inspires  me  88 

Granted  to  it,  in  his  hand  whom  I  name. 

Glory  of  taking  vengeance  for  its  wrath. 
Marvel  now  here  at  my  reply  to  thee :  91 

It  sped  with  Titus  afterwards  to  take 

Vengeance  for  vengeance  of  the  ancient  sin. 
And  when  the  Holy  Church  was  bitten  by  94 

The  Lombard  tooth,  victorious  Charlemagne 

Came  to  her  succor  underneath  its  wings. 
Now  canst  thou  judge  aright  of  such  as  those  97 

Whom  I  accused  above,  and  of  their  faults. 

Which  are  the  cause  of  all  your  ills.    One  lifts 
The  yellow  lilies  'gainst  the  public  standard,  100 

Another  claims  it  for  his  faction  so 

That  it  is  hard  to  see  which  errs  the  more. 
Use  then  the  Ghibellines,  use  they  their  skill  103 

'Neath  other  standard !    This  one  follows  ill 

Ever  the  man  who  justice  parts  from  it ; 
Let  this  new  Charles  with  his  Guelf  followers  106 

Not  strike  it  down ;  but  let  him  fear  the  talons 

That  from  a  loftier  lion  stripped  the  fell. 
Sons  many  times  already  have  be  wept  109 

A  father's  fault;  and  let  him  not  believe 

That  for  his  lilies  God  will  change  His  arms ! 
This  little  star  embellishes  itself  na 

With  the  good  spirits  who  were  active  that 

Honor  and  fame  might  follow  after  them ; 
And  when,  thus  deviating,  the  desires  1 15 

Mount  thither,  then  the  rays  of  the  true  love 


318  THE  DIVINE  COMEDY 

Must  needs  mount  up  on  high  with  less  of  life. 
But,  that  our  wages  are  commensurate  118 

With  our  desert,  is  part  of  our  delight, 

Because  we  see  them  neither  less  nor  more. 
Hereby  the  Living  Justice  makes  so  sweet  121 

Within  us  our  affection,  it  may  ne^er 

Be  turned  aside  to  any  wickedness. 
As  diverse  voices  make  sweet  notes  on  earth,  124 

So  in  this  life  of  ours  do  diverse  seats 

Render  sweet  harmony  among  these  wheels. 
And  here  within  the  present  pearl  gives  light  127 

The  light  of  Romeo,  of  whom  the  work 

Was  ill  requited,  though  both  fair  and  great. 
But  they  who  worked  against  him  in  Provence  1^® 

Laugh  not;  and  so  he  goes  an  evil  way 

Who  turns  to  his  own  harm  others '  good  deeds. 
Four  daughters,  and  each  one  of  them  a  queen,  133 

Had  Raymond  Berenger,  and  this  for  him 

Romeo  did,  a  humble  foreigner; 
And  afterwards  distorted  words  moved  him  136 

To  call  this  just  man  to  account,  and  he 

Rendered  to  him  seven  and  five  for  ten ; 
Thence  he  departed  poor,  in  his  old  age,  13> 

And  if  the  world  but  knew  the  heart  he  had, 

As  bit  by  bit  he  begged  his  livelihood, 
Much  as  it  praises  him,  it  would  praise  him  more."         1*2 


CANTO  VII 

*^Osanna  sanctus  Deus  Sabaoth, 
Superillustrans  claritate  tua 
Felices  ignes  horum  mcdachothf 

To  its  own  melody  revolving,  thus 


PARADISO,  VII  319 

This  substance,  upon  which  a  two-fold  light 

Is  doubled,  was  beheld  by  me  to  sing ; 
And  to  their  dance  it  and  the  others  moved,  7 

And  veiled  themselves  from  me  like  swiftest  sparks 

In  sudden  distance.    I  was  in  suspense, 
And  saying :  * '  Tell  her,  tell  her, ' '  to  myself,  10 

' '  Tell  her  who  is  my  Lady, ' '  saying  still, 

''Who  slakes  the  thirst  within  me  with  sweet  drops;*' 
But  by  that  reverence, — the  mistress  now  13 

Of  all  my  being, — for  Be  and  Ice  even, 

I  was  bowed  down  as  one  who  falls  asleep. 
Not  long  did  Beatrice  let  me  be  thus,  16 

When  she  began,  with  smile  so  radiant 

That  one  were  happy  with  it  in  the  flames: 
**By  what  infallibly  appears  to  me,  19 

How  it  could  be  that  vengeance,  which  was  just. 

With  justice  was  avenged,  has  set  thee  thinking; 
But  I  will  speedily  set  free  thy  mind ;  22 

And  do  thou  listen,  for  my  words  on  thee 

A  present  of  great  doctrine  will  bestow. 
As  he  who  was  not  born  endured  no  rein  25 

For  his  own  good  upon  the  power  that  wills, 

He,  damning  self,  damned  all  his  progeny; 
Wherefore  the  human  race  lay  sick  down  there  28 

For  many  ages  in  great  error,  till 

It  pleased  the  Word  of  God  there  to  descend 
Where  to  His  person  He  that  nature  joined  31 

Which  from  its  Maker  had  estranged  itself. 

By  the  sole  act  of  His  eternal  love. 
Now  turn  thy  sight  to  that  which  now  I  say :  34 

This  nature  to  its  Maker  thus  united 

Was,  as  it  was  created,  pure  and  good; 
But  through  itself  it  came  to  banishment  37 

From  Paradise,  because  it  turned  aside 


320  THE  DIVINE  COMEDY 

From  out  the  way  of  truth  and  from  its  life. 
The  penalty,  then,  offered  by  the  cross,  40 

If  measured  by  the  nature  there  assumed, 

None  ever  bit  so  justly;  and  likewise 
Was  never  one  of  such  iniquity,  *3 

If  we  regard  the  Person  suffering. 

In  whom  this  nature  was  contracted  thus. 
So  from  one  act  there  issued  things  diverse ;  ^^ 

For  unto  God  and  to  the  Jews  was  pleasing 

One  death,  whereat  earth  quaked  and  heaven  opened. 
It  should  no  longer  now  seem  hard  to  thee  ^ 

When  it  is  told  thee  that  a  vengeance  just 

Was  afterwards  avenged  by  a  just  court. 
But  I  see  now  that  thy  mind  is  involved  52 

From  thought  to  thought  within  a  knot,  from  which 

With  great  desire  it  waits  to  be  set  free. 
Thou  sayest :  *  I  understand  well  what  I  hear ;  65 

But  it  is  hidden  from  me  wherefore  God 

For  our  redemption  just  this  method  chose.' 
My  brother,  this  decree  lies  buried  from  58 

The  eyes  of  every  one,  of  whom  the  wit 

Has  not  matured  within  the  flame  of  love. 
But  inasmuch  as  at  this  work  men  gaze  W 

So  much  and  see  so  little,  I  will  say 

Why  such  a  method  was  the  worthiest. 
Goodness  Divine  which  ever  from  Itself  W 

Spurns  envy,  sparkles  so,  on  fire  within, 

That  the  eternal  beauties  are  displayed. 
That  which,  without  a  mean,  distils  from  It,  <J7 

Has  after  that  no  end,  for  Its  imprint, 

When  It  has  sealed,  can  never  be  removed. 
That  which,  without  a  mean,  rains  down  from  It,  ^^ 

Because  it  is  not  subject  to  the  power 

Of  the  new  things,  is  wholly  unconfined; 


PARADISO,  VII  321 

Pleases  It  most,  the  most  conformed  to  It ;  73 

Because  the  Holy  Ardor,  lighting  all, 

Is  liveliest  in  that  most  like  Itself. 
Of  all  these  things  is  the  advantage  given  76 

The  human  creature,  and,  if  one  thing  fail, 

It  needs  must  fall  from  its  nobility. 
It  loses  liberty  through  sin  alone,  79 

Making  it  unlike  to  the  Highest  Good, 

So  that  Its  white  light  scarce  illumines  it ; 
And  to  its  dignity  it  ne'er  returns,  ^2 

Unless  it  fill  again  the  sin-made  void, 

111  pleasures  balanced  with  just  penalties. 
When  in  its  seed  your  nature  wholly  sinned,  ^^ 

Out  of  these  dignities  it  was  removed 

As  out  of  Paradise;  not  by  itself 
Could  it  recover  them  by  any  way, —  ^^ 

If  thou  full  subtly  do  consider  it, — 

Except  it  pass  by  one  of  these  two  fords: 
Either  that  God,  solely  by  courtesy  ^^ 

Of  His,  had  pardoned,  or  that  by  himself 

Man  should  have  satisfied  his  folly's  debt. 
Let  now  thy  gaze  be  fixed  within  the  abyss  ^^ 

Of  the  eternal  counsel,  to  my  words 

Holding  as  closely  as  thou  hast  the  power. 
Now  satisfaction  man  could  never  make  ^7 

Within  his  limits,  for  he  could  not  go 

Down  in  humility,  obeying  now, 
So  deep,  as  in  his  disobedience  ^^^ 

He  thought  to  rise ;  for  this  cause  was  man  barred 

From  power  by  himself  to  satisfy. 
Therefore  was  God  obliged  by  His  own  ways  ^^^ 

To  bring  man  back  into  his  perfect  life, — 

I  say  by  one  way,  or,  indeed,  by  both. 
But  as  the  work  of  one  who  works  is  prized  ^^^ 


322  THE  DIVINE  COMEDY 

So  much  the  more,  the  more  it  represents 

Of  the  heart's  goodness,  whence  it  issued  forth; 
Goodness  Divine,  whose  stamp  is  on  the  world,  ^^ 

With  moving  onward  along  all  its  ways 

To  lift  you  again  upward  was  content ; 
And  'twixt  the  first  day  and  the  final  night  1^2 

Nor  was  nor  shall  be  along  either  way 

Progress  so  high  and  so  magnificent; 
God  was  more  bounteous  to  give  Himself  115 

To  make  man  able  to  uplift  himself, 

Than  had  He  pardoned,  of  Himself  alone; 
And  all  the  other  methods  were  but  short  118 

Of  justice,  if  the  Son  of  God  had  not 

Humbled  Himself  to  taking  on  man's  flesh. 
Now,  to  fulfil  for  thee  thine  every  wish,  121 

I  turn  back  to  make  clear  a  certain  point 

That  thou  mayst  view  it  as  I  do  myself. 
Thou  sayest :  *  I  see  the  water,  see  the  fire,  1** 

The  air,  the  earth,  and  all  of  them  combined 

Come  to  corruption,  lasting  but  a  while;' 
And  yet,  these  are  created  things ;  wherefore,  127 

If  that  which  I  have  stated  has  been  true. 

Against  corruption  they  should  be  secure. 
The  angels,  brother,  and  the  stainless  place  1'® 

In  which  thou  art  now,  may  be  called  created 

In  their  whole  being,  even  as  they  are; 
But  both  the  elements  which  thou  hast  named,  !•• 

And  whatsoever  things  are  made  of  them 

By  a  created  virtue  are  informed. 
Created  was  the  matter  which  they  have,  !•• 

Created  was  the  virtue  which  informs 

These  stars  which  round  about  them  have  their  courses. 
The  ray  and  motion  of  the  holy  lights  l^* 

Draw  from  potentiate  elements  combined 


PAKADISO,  VIII  323 

The  soul  of  every  brute  and  of  the  plants. 
But  the  Supreme  Benignity  inspires,  1^2 

Immediate,  your  life,  enamouring  it 

So  of  Itself,  that  ever  afterwards 
It  longs  for  It ;  and  thence  thou  canst  besides  ^^ 

Infer  your  resurrection,  if  thou  call 

Again  to  mind  in  what  way  human  flesh 
Was  made,  when  the  first  parents  both  were  formed,"      ^*8 


CANTO  VIII 

The  imperiled  world  was  wonted  to  believe 

That  the  fair  Cyprian  beamed  forth  mad  love, 

In  the  third  epicycle  as  she  turned; 
Wherefore  not  only  did  they  honor  her  * 

With  sacrificing  and  with  votive  cry, 

The  ancient  peoples  in  the  ancient  error. 
But  honored  Cupid  and  Dione  too,  ^ 

This  one  her  mother  deemed,  and  that  her  son. 

Who,  they  related,  sat  in  Dido's  lap; 
And  took  from  her,  with  whom  I  now  begin,  1<> 

The  appellation  of  the  star,  on  which 

The  sun  looks  fondly,  rearward  or  in  front. 
I  had  not  noticed  the  ascent  to  it;  ^3 

But  full  assurance  that  I  was  therein 

My  Lady  gave  me,  whom  I  saw  now  grown 
More  beautiful.    As  in  a  flame  a  spark  !• 

Is  seen,  as  voice  is  separate  from  voice, 

When  one  is  constant,  and  one  goes  and  comes; 
So  I  in  this  light  could  see  other  lamps  !• 

Move  circling  swifter  and  less  swift,  I  think^ 

In  measure  with  the  eternal  vision  theirs. 
From  a  cold  cloud  never  descended  winds  22 


324  THE  DIVINE  COMEDY 

So  rapid,  visible  or  not,  that  they 

Would  not  have  seemed  hindered  and  slow  to  him 
Who  had  beheld  these  lights  divine  advance  25 

Toward  us,  leaving  the  circling  that  had  first 

Begun  among  the  exalted  Seraphim. 
And  amid  those  who  most  in  front  appeared  28 

Hosanna  sounded  so,  that  never  since 

Lacked  I  desire  of  hearing  it  again. 
Then  one  drew  nearer  to  us,  and  alone  '1 

Began :  * '  We  to  thy  pleasuring  are  all 

In  readiness,  that  thou  mayst  joy  in  us. 
With  the  celestial  Princes  we  revolve, —  34 

With  but  one  circle  circling,  and  one  thirst, — 

To  whom  thou  in  the  world  saidst  formerly: 
'Ye  who  hy  intelligence  the  third  heaven  move;'  37 

And  are  so  full  of  love  that,  to  please  thee, 

A  little  quiet  will  not  be  less  sweet. ' ' 
After  my  eyes  had  made  their  offering  *0 

Of  reverence  to  my  Lady,  and  she  then 

Had  made  them  with  herself  content  and  sure. 
They  turned  back  to  the  light,  that  of  itself  ^ 

Had  made  such  proffer,  and:  "Say  who  ye  are,*' 

Were  then  my  words,  with  great  affection  stamped. 
And  how  I  saw  it  grow  in  quantity  *• 

And  quality  through  new  joy  when  I  spoke, 

Thus  added  to  the  joys  that  were  its  own  I 
Grown  thus,  it  said  to  me :  *  *  The  world  below  ^ 

Held  me  not  long ;  and  had  it  longer  been, 

Much  evil  would  not  be,  that  still  shall  be. 
My  happiness  keeps  me  concealed  from  thee,  W 

Which  radiates  around  me,  hiding  me 

As  it  were  a  creature  swathed  in  its  own  silk. 
Much  didst  thou  love  me,  and  didst  have  good  cause,         ^5 

For  had  I  stayed  below,  I  should  have  shown 


PARADISO,  VIII  325 

Of  my  own  love  for  thee  more  than  the  leaves. 
That  left-hand  bank,  which  by  the  Rhone  is  washed         58 

After  it  has  been  mingled  with  the  Sorgue, 

Awaited  me  in  due  time  for  its  lord ; 
And  that  horn  of  Ausonia,  suburbed  ^^ 

By  Bari,  by  Gaeta  and  Catona, 

Below  the  Tronto's  and  the  Verde's  mouths. 
Already  there  was  shining  on  my  brow  ^^ 

The  crown  of  that  land  which  the  Danube  loves 

When  it  has  left  behind  the  German  banks; 
And  fair  Trinacria,  that  darkens  'twixt  ^^ 

Pachynus  and  Pelorus  on  the  gulf 

"Which  is  by  Eurus'  blasts  the  most  disturbed, 
Not  through  Typhoeus  but  through  sulphur  rising,  70 

Would  have  awaited  still  its  sovereigns 

From  Charles  and  Rudolph  through  myself  descended, 
If  evil  governing,  which  always  strikes  ^3 

The  hearts  of  subject  peoples,  had  not  moved 

Palermo  to  cry  out :  '  Die,  die ! '  and  if 
My  brother  had  foreseen  this  he  would  now  76 

Shun  Catalonia's  greedy  poverty, 

In  order  that  it  might  not  work  his  harm; 
For  truly  it  is  needful  to  provide  79 

By  him  or  others  that  his  laden  bark 

Should  have  no  greater  burden  put  on  it. 
His  nature,  which  of  liberal  descent  82 

Is  niggardly,  had  need  of  soldiery 

Such  as  cared  not  to  store  away  in  chests. ' ' 
*' Since  I  believe  that  the  exalted  joy,  85 

Infused  in  me  by  what  thou  sayest,  my  Lord, 

Where  every  good  has  both  its  end  and  source, 
By  thee  is  seen  as  I  myself  see  it,  88 

It  pleases  me  the  more ;  this  too  I  prize, 

That  thou  discernest  that,  looking  to  God. 


326  THE  DIVINE  COMEDY 

Glad  thou  hast  made  me ;  so  make  clear  to  me,  ^1 

Since,  speaking,  thou  hast  raised  in  me  a  doubt, 

How  from  sweet  seed  bitter  can  issue  forth/' 
This  I  to  him;  and  he  to  me:  ''If  I  W 

Can  show  one  truth  to  thee,  to  what  thou  askest 

Thy  face  shall  turn,  as  now  thy  back  is  turned. 
The  Good,  which  the  whole  realm  that  thou  dost  scale       ^7 

Revolves  and  satisfies,  makes  as  a  power 

In  these  great  bodies  Its  own  providence; 
And  not  the  natures  merely  are  foreseen,  100 

In  that  Mind  which  is  perfect  by  itself. 

But  their  safe-ordering  as  well  as  they. 
Hence  whatsoever  arrow  this  bow  shoots,  103 

As  if  disposed,  falls  to  an  end  foreseen, 

Even  as  a  thing  directed  to  its  mark. 
The  heaven  through  which  thou  journey  est  would  work    106 

In  such  wise  its  effects,  were  this  not  so. 

That  they  would  not  be  works  of  art,  but  ruins; 
This  can  not  be,  if  the  intellects  which  move  109 

These  stars  are  not  defective,  and  the  First 

Defective  too,  who  them  imperfect  made. 
Wilt  thou  have  this  truth  made  more  clear  1 ' '  And  I :       ^12 

* '  Not  so,  for  it  is  impossible,  I  see. 

That  nature  weary  in  what  is  required. ' ' 
Whence  he  again :  '*  Now,  say,  would  it  be  worse  ^^5 

That  man  on  earth  were  not  a  citizen  ? '  * 

*'Yes,"  I  replied,  '*no  reason  ask  I  here." 
**And  can  it  be,  except  they  live  below  118 

In  divers  ways  for  divers  offices  ? 

No,  if  your  Master  writes  well  on  this  point.  *  * 
By  such  deduction  he  had  come  thus  far,  181 

And  then  concluded :  "  It  must  needs  be,  hence, 

That  diverse  are  the  roots  of  your  eflPects; 
Whence  one  is  Solon,  one  is  Xerxes  born,  124 


PARADISO,  IX  327 

One  is  Melchisedech,  and  one  is  he 

Who  lost  his  son  when  flying  through  the  air. 
The  nature  of  the  spheres,  which  is  a  seal  127 

To  mortal  wax,  practises  well  its  art 

Without  distinction  of  this  inn  from  that. 
Hence  it  befalls  that  Esau  is  apart  130 

In  seed  from  Jacob,  and  Quirinus  comes 

From  so  mean  sire,  he  is  assigned  to  Mars. 
Nature  begotten  would  go  on  its  way  133 

From  that  of  its  begetters  never  changed, 

Except  God's  Providence  should  overcome. 
Now  that  which  was  behind  thee  is  before ;  136 

But  that  thou  learn  my  joy  in  thee,  I  will 

That  with  a  corollary  thou  be  cloaked. 
Ever  does  nature  come  to  evil  test,  139 

If  it  find  fortune  with  itself  at  odds. 

Like  every  other  seed  out  of  its  place. 
And  if  the  world  down  there  would  fix  its  mind  142 

On  the  foundation-base  that  nature  lays. 

Obeying  that,  it  would  have  people  good. 
But  to  religion  ye  turn  him  aside  145 

Born  to  be  girded  with  a  sword ;  and  him 

Who  is  a  man  for  preaching  ye  make  king ; 
So  that  your  track  is  outside  of  the  road."  148 


CANTO  IX 

After  I  was  enlightened  by  thy  Charles, 

Beautiful  Clemence,  of  those  frauds  he  told  me 
Which  were  to  be  experienced  by  his  seed. 

But  said:  ''Speak  not,  and  let  the  years  roll  on;'' 
So  I  am  able  to  say  naught,  except 
That  just  lament  shall  follow  on  your  wrongs. 


328  THE  DIVINE  COMEDY 

And  now  the  life  within  that  holy  light  7 

Toward  the  sun  that  fills  it  had  turned  back, 

As  to  that  Good  sufficing  for  all  things. 
Ah,  souls  deceived  and  creatures  impious,  10 

Who  turn  aside  your  hearts  from  such  a  Good, 

Directing  unto  vanity  your  brows! 
And  lo,  another  of  those  splendors  made  18 

Its  way  toward  me,  and  signified  its  will 

To  do  me  pleasure,  brightening  outwardly. 
The  eyes  of  Beatrice,  which  were  now  fixed  1* 

Upon  me  as  before,  made  me  assured 

Of  dear  assenting  unto  my  desire. 
''Pray,  grant  my  will  a  speedy  answering,  !• 

0  blessed  spirit,"  said  I;  "give  me  proof 

That  what  I  think,  I  may  reflect  on  thee. ' ' 
"Whereon  the  light  which  was  still  new  to  me,  22 

From  out  its  deep  where  it  was  singing  first, 

Went  on  as  one  whom  doing  good  delights : 
"Within  that  region  of  the  wicked  land  25 

Of  Italy,  that  'twixt  Rialto  lies 

And  Brenta's  springs  and  Piave's,  is  a  hill 
That  rises  to  no  lofty  altitude  28 

And  whence  a  fire-brand  came  down  formerly 

That  made  a  great  assault  upon  these  parts. 
From  one  and  the  same  root  sprang  it  and  I ;  31 

Cunizza  was  I  called,  and  I  glow  here, 

For  I  was  overcome  by  this  star's  light. 
But  I  grant  pardon  to  myself  with  joy  34 

For  that  which  caused  my  lot,  which  grieves  me  not, — 

Which  to  your  common  herd  seems  hard,  perchance. 
Of  the  resplendent  and  beloved  jewel  37 

Of  this  our  heaven,  nearest  to  me  now. 

Great  fame  was  left  behind,  and  ere  it  die 
This  hundredth  year  shall  come  a  fifth  time  yet.  *0 


PARADISO,  IX  329 

See  whether  man  should  make  himself  excel, 

So  that  the  first  may  leave  another  life ! 
And  to  this  gives  no  thought  the  present  crowd  43 

That  Tagliamento  and  Adige  hem  in ; 

And  which,  though  smitten,  repents  not  yet ;  but  soon 
It  will  befall  that  Padua  at  the  Marsh  46 

Will  change  the  water  that  Vicenza  bathes. 

Because  the  peoples  are  'gainst  duty  stubborn. 
And  there  where  Sile  and  Cagnano  join,  49 

One  lords  it  and  holds  high  his  head,  for  whom 

The  ensnaring  net  is  making  even  now. 
Tears  shall  yet  fall  in  Feltro  for  the  breach  52 

Of  her  inhuman  pastor's  faith,  so  shameful. 

One  never  entered  Malta  for  the  like. 
Exceeding  large  would  be  the  vat  that  should  55 

Receive  the  life-blood  of  the  Ferrarese, 

And  weary  who  should  weigh  it  ounce  by  ounce, 
Of  which  this  courteous  priest  will  make  a  gift  58 

To  show  himself  his  party's;  and  such  gifts 

To  the  region's  life  will  be  conformable. 
Mirrors  there  are  above, — ye  call  them  Thrones, —  61 

From  which  God  judging  sheds  the  light  on  us, 

So  that  to  us  these  words  seem  to  be  good." 
Here  she,  grown  silent,  had  to  me  a  look  ^ 

As  if  she  were  turned  elsewhere  by  the  wheel 

In  which  she  put  herself,  as  formerly. 
The  other  joy,  already  known  to  me  ^^ 

As  an  illustrious  thing,  grew  in  my  sight 

Like  a  fine  ruby  on  which  sunlight  falls. 
Brightness  is  through  rejoicing  gained  on  high,  70 

As  here  a  smile ;  but  down  below  the  shade 

Grows  dark  without,  even  as  the  mind  is  sad. 
*'As  God  sees  all,  and  thy  sight  is  in  Him,"  73 

Said  I,  *'0  blessed  Spirit,  so  no  wish 


330  THE  DIVINE  COMEDY 

Can  ever  steal  itself  away  from  thee. 

Thy  voice,  then,  which  is  ever  gladdening  heaven,  76 

Joined  to  the  singing  of  those  fires  devout. 
Which  of  six  wings  make  for  themselves  a  cowl, — 

Why  satisfies  it  not  now  my  desires  ?  79 

Surely  I  should  not  wait  for  thee  to  ask. 
If  I  could  enter  thee  as  thou  dost  me." 

*  *  The  greatest  vale  in  which  the  water  spreads, ' '  82 

Began  his  words  then  saying,  "save  that  sea, 
Which  is  a  garland  round  about  the  earth, 

'Twixt  shores  discordant  'gainst  the  sun  extends  85 

So  far,  that  it  makes  a  meridian 
Where  the  horizon  first  it  is  wont  to  make. 

I  was  a  dweller  on  that  valley's  shore  88 

Between  the  Ebro  and  the  Magra's  course 
Which,  short,  parts  Genoese  from  Tuscan  land. 

One  sunrise  nearly  and  one  sunset  knowing,  ^1 

Sit  Buggea  and  the  city  whence  I  sprang 
Which  warmed  the  harbor  once  with  its  own  blood. 

Folco  that  people  called  me  unto  whom  9* 

My  name  was  known,  and  now  this  heaven  stamps 
Itself  with  me,  as  I  was  stamped  with  it; 

For  Belus'  daughter  was  no  more  on  fire,  ^7 

Wronging  Sichaeus  and  Creusa  too. 
Than  I,  while  it  comported  with  my  locks; 

Nor  she  of  Rhodope,  deluded  by  100 

Demophoon,  nor  yet  Alcides,  when 
He  held  lole  shut  within  his  heart. 

Yet  here  is  no  repentance,  only  smiles ;  103 

Not  for  the  fault,  which  comes  not  back  to  mind, 
But  for  the  Power  which  ordered  and  foresaw. 

We  gaze  here  on  the  Art  which  beautifies  106 

Effect  so  great ;  and  we  discern  the  Qood 
By  which  the  world  below  turns  heavenly. 


PARADISO,  IX  331 

But  that  thou  mayst  bear  hence  thy  wishes  all  ^09 

Fulfilled  that  have  been  born  within  this  sphere, 

Still  further  it  behoves  me  to  proceed. 
Thou  fain  wouldst  know  who  is  within  this  light  112 

That  here  beside  me,  like  a  ray  of  sun 

In  limpid  water,  is  now  sparkling  so. 
Therefore  know  thou  that  there  within  at  rest  115 

Is  Rahab,  and  our  order,  joined  by  her. 

Is  sealed  by  her  in  the  supreme  degree. 
First  of  the  souls  of  the  Triumphant  Christ  118 

Was  she  received  up  by  this  heaven  where 

The  shadow  of  your  earth  comes  to  its  point. 
Well  it  behoved  to  leave  her  in  some  heaven  121 

As  palm  of  that  exalted  victory 

Which  with  one  palm  and  the  other  had  been  gained; 
Because  she  favored  when  first  glorious  124 

Was  Joshua  upon  the  Holy  Land, 

Which  touches  memory  little  in  the  pope. 
Thy  city  which  of  that  one  is  a  plant  127 

Who  first  upon  his  Maker  turned  his  back. 

And  of  whom  is  the  envy  so  bewept, 
Brings  forth  and  scatters  the  accursed  flower  130 

By  which  the  sheep  and  lambs  are  led  astray, 

For  of  its  shepherd  it  has  made  a  wolf. 
For  this  the  Gospel  has  been  left  aside  133 

And  the  great  Doctors,  and  alone  perused 

Are  the  Decretals,  as  their  margins  show. 
On  this  are  pope  and  cardinals  intent ;  136 

They  go  not  in  their  thoughts  to  Nazareth, 

Where  Gabriel  spread  his  wings ;  but  Vatican 
Shall  with  the  other  chosen  parts  of  Rome,  139 

In  which  has  found  their  place  of  burial 

The  soldiery  of  Peter's  following, 
Be  soon  set  free  from  the  adultery."  142 


332  THE  DIVINE  COMEDY 


CANTO  X 


10 


Looking  upon  His  own  Son  with  the  Love 

"Which  is  eternally  breathed  forth  by  both, 

The  Power  primal  and  ineffable 
Made  with  such  order  whatsoe'er  revolves 

Through  mind  or  space,  that  he  who  looks  on  it 

Can  not  remain  without  a  taste  of  Him. 
Lift  then,  0  reader,  to  the  exalted  wheels 

With  me  thy  sight  straight  upward  to  that  part 

"Where  the  one  motion  on  the  other  strikes ; 
And  there  begin  to  gaze  with  love  upon 

That  Master's  art,  which  He  within  Himself 

So  loves  that  from  it  He  ne'er  turns  His  eye. 
Behold  how  from  that  point  there  branches  off  ^^ 

The  sloping  circle  that  bears  up  the  orbs 

To  satisfy  the  world  that  calls  on  them; 
And  if  their  path  were  not  oblique,  in  vain  !• 

"Would  many  a  virtue  be  in  heaven,  while 

Well-nigh  all  potency  were  dead  below; 
And  if  from  straight  its  deviation  were  1* 

Greater  or  less,  then  great  were  the  defect 

Above  in  mundane  order,  and  below. 
Remain,  0  reader,  then  upon  thy  bench,  22 

Reflecting  on  that  which  is  offered  thee, 

Wilt  thou  have  joy  rather  than  weariness. 
I  have  set  before  thee ;  henceforth  feed  thyself ;  25 

For  to  itself  is  drawing  all  my  care 

That  matter  of  which  I  am  made  a  scribe. 
Of  nature's  ministers  the  mightiest,  28 

Who  stamps  the  worth  of  heaven  on  the  world 

And  with  his  light  measures  the  time  for  us, 
With  that  part  which  above  is  called  to  mind  31 


PARADISO,  X  333 

Conjoined  was  circling  through  the  spirals,  where 

He  ever  earlier  presents  himself. 
And  I  was  with  him ;  but  of  the  ascent  34 

I  had  no  knowledge  otherwise  than  one 

Before  a  first  thought  knows  of  its  approach. 
It  is  Beatrice  who  thus  conducts  from  good  37 

To  better  with  such  instantaneousness 

That  what  she  does  has  no  extent  in  time. 
How  lucent  of  itself  must  that  have  been  40 

Which  was  within  the  sun  where  I  had  come, 

Apparent  not  by  color  but  by  light! 
Though  I  should  call  on  genius,  art  and  use,  43 

I  could  not  tell  so  one  could  picture  it ; 

But  one  may  trust,  and  let  him  long  to  see. 
And,  are  the  powers  of  our  fancy  low  ^ 

For  such  a  height,  it  is  no  marvel,  since 

Beyond  the  sun  was  never  eye  could  go. 
Such  there  was  the  fourth  family  of  Him,  49 

The  exalted  Father,  who  e'er  satisfies  it. 

Showing  how  He  breathes  forth  and  how  begets. 
And  Beatrice  began :  ' '  Give  thanks,  give  thanks  52 

Unto  the  angels'  Sun,  who  by  His  grace 

Has  raised  thee  to  this  one  perceived  by  sense.*' 
Never  was  heart  of  mortal  so  disposed  55 

Unto  devotion  and  with  all  its  will 

So  ready  to  betake  itself  to  God 
As  I  was  at  those  words ;  and  all  my  love  58 

Was  so  bestowed  on  Him,  that  Beatrice 

Was  thereby  in  oblivion  eclipsed. 
But  it  displeased  her  not ;  and  so  she  smiled  61 

That  by  the  splendor  of  her  smiling  eyes 

She  turned  my  mind  from  one  to  many  things. 
Lights  living,  overwhelming,  many  I  saw  64 

Make  us  a  centre  and  themselves  a  crown, 


334  THE  DIVINE  COMEDY 

More  sweet  in  voice  than  in  appearance  bright. 
The  daughter  of  Latona  girdled  thus  ^^ 

We  see  sometimes  when  the  air  impregnated 

Has  thus  retained  the  thread  that  makes  her  zone. 
In  heaven's  court,  whence  I  come  back,  are  jewels  70 

Many,  so  precious  and  so  beautiful 

That  they  may  not  be  taken  from  that  realm; 
Of  them  these  lights  were  singing ;  and  let  him  78 

Who  does  not  wing  himself  to  fly  up  there, 

Look  for  the  dumb  to  bring  the  tidings  thence. 
When  with  their  singing  thus  those  burning  suns  76 

Had  circled  round  about  us  the  third  time 

Like  stars  not  far  off  from  the  unmoving  poles. 
They  seemed  as  ladies,  not  released  from  dancing,  79 

But  having  paused,  and,  silent,  listening. 

Till  they  have  caught  again  the  notes  renewed. 
And  within  one  I  heard  beginning:  ** Since  82 

The  ray  of  grace,  by  which  enkindled  is 

True  love,  and  which  increases  thereupon 
By  loving  multiplied,  so  shines  in  thee  85 

That  it  conducts  thee  upward  by  that  stair 

Which  none  descend  but  to  ascend  again, 
He  who  refused  to  give  thee  from  his  flask  88 

Wine  for  thy  thirst,  would  not  be  free  except 

As  water  which  descends  not  to  the  sea. 
Thou  wouldst  fain  know  with  what  plants  is  enflowered    ^^ 

This  garland,  which,  encircling,  joys  to  see 

The  Lady  fair  who  strengthens  thee  for  heaven. 
I  was  one  of  the  lambs,  that  holy  flock  W 

Which  Dominic  is  leading  by  a  way 

Where  they  will  fatten,  if  they  wander  not. 
This  one,  the  nearest  at  my  right,  to  me  ^7 

Was  brother  and  master ;  Albert  of  Cologne 

Was  he,  and  Thomas  of  Aquino  I. 


PARADISO,  X  335 

If  thus  of  all  the  rest  thou  wouldst  be  told,  100 

Follow  behind  my  speaking  with  thy  sight, 

Circling  above  along  the  blessed  wreath. 
That  flaming  next  is  issuing  from  the  smile  103 

Of  Gratian,  who  gave  one  and  the  other  court 

Such  aid  as  pleases  well  in  Paradise. 
The  other  who  next  him  adorns  our  choir  106 

"Was  Peter,  who  like  the  poor  widow  gave, 

His  treasure  Ojffering  to  Holy  Church. 
The  fifth  light,  the  most  beautiful  of  ours,  109 

Breathes  from  such  love,  that  all  the  world  below 

Craves  to  have  tidings  of  it ;  there  within 
Is  that  exalted  mind  in  which  was  put  112 

"Wisdom  so  deep,  that,  if  the  truth  is  true, 

To  see  so  much  a  second  has  not  risen. 
Next  see  that  candle 's  light,  which  in  the  flesh  115 

Below  with  farthest  penetration  saw 

The  angelic  nature  and  its  ministry. 
Within  the  other  little  light  he  smiles,  118 

"Who  was  the  advocate  of  Christian  times. 

And  of  whose  Latin  Augustine  made  use. 
Now  if  thou  leadest  on  the  eye  of  the  mind  121 

From  light  to  light,  my  praises  following, 

Already  for  the  eighth  thou  stayest  with  thirst. 
Therein,  through  seeing  every  good,  rejoices  124 

The  holy  soul,  who  the  fallacious  world 

Makes  manifest  to  him  who  listens  well. 
Below  within  Cieldauro  lies  the  body  127 

"Whence  it  was  hunted  forth,  and  came  itself 

From  martyrdom  and  exile  to  this  peace. 
See  yonder  flaming  of  the  glowing  breath  130 

Of  Isidore,  and  Bede,  and  of  that  Richard 

"Who  in  contemplating  was  more  than  man. 
This  light  from  which  thy  look  returns  to  me,  133 


336  THE  DIVINE  COMEDY 

Is  of  a  spirit,  who  in  his  grave  thoughts 
Seemed  to  himself  but  slow  to  come  to  death ; 

It  is  the  light  eternal  of  Siger  136 

Who,  as  he  lectured  in  the  Street  of  Straw, 
Syllogized  truths  that  were  invidious." 

Then  as  a  horologe  which  summons  us  139 

At  the  arising  of  the  Bride  of  God 
To  seek  the  Bridegroom's  love  with  matin-song, 

In  which  one  part  another  draws  and  thrusts,  1*2 

Its  tin!  tin!  sounding  with  so  sweet  a  note 
That  the  well-ordered  spirit  swells  with  love; 

So  saw  I  move  itself  the  glorious  wheel  1*5 

And  give  back  voice  to  voice  in  harmony 
And  with  a  sweetness  that  can  not  be  known, 

Save  there  where  joy  prolongs  itself  for  aye.  1*8 


CANTO  XI 

Insensate  care  of  mortals,  what  defects 
Are  in  those  syllogisms  which  make  thee  beat 
Thy  wings  to  what  is  base !     One  went  his  way 

In  the  pursuit  of  laws,  another  was  * 

For  aphorisms,  and  for  the  priesthood  one, 
And  one  would  reign  by  sophisms  and  by  force, 

One  plunder,  one  in  business  of  the  state,  7 

One  in  the  pleasure  of  the  flesh  involved 
Was  wearying  himself,  and  one  was  giving 

Himself  to  idleness, — while  disengaged  1<> 

From  all  these  things  I  was  with  Beatrice 
Above  in  heaven  thus  gloriously  received. 

When  each  one  had  in  turning  reached  the  point  13 

Upon  the  circle  where  he  was  before. 
He  stopped,  like  candle  in  a  candlestick. 


PARADISO,  XI  337 

And  I  could  hear  within  that  light  which  first  16 

Had  spoken  to  me,  how  it  thus  began, 

Making  itself  the  clearer  as  it  smiled : 
''Even  as  I  am  glowing  with  its  ray,  1^ 

So,  as  I  look  on  the  Eternal  Light, 

I  apprehend  the  occasion  of  thy  thoughts. 
Thou  art  in  doubt,  and  wishest  that  my  words  22 

Be  made  more  clear  in  open,  fuller  speech 

To  be  upon  the  level  of  thy  sense, 
When  I  before  now  said :  '  Where  they  well  fatten, '  25 

And  when  I  said :  '  A  second  has  not  risen ; ' 

And  here  is  need  that  one  distinguish  well. 
The  Providence,  the  Ruler  of  the  world  28 

With  counsel  such  that  all  created  sight 

Is  overcome  before  it  reach  the  depths. 
So  that  the  bride  of  Him,  who  with  loud  cries  31 

Espoused  her  with  the  blessed  blood,  might  go 

To  her  Beloved,  in  herself  secure 
And  also  still  more  faithful  unto  Him,  34 

Ordained,  to  favor  her,  two  princes,  who 

On  this  side  and  on  that  should  be  her  guides, 
The  one  all  seraph  in  his  burning  zeal,  37 

The  other  through  his  wisdom  on  the  earth 

A  splendor  with  the  light  of  cherubim. 
My  words  shall  be  of  one,  because  of  both  40 

He  speaks  who  praises  one,  whiche  'er  he  takes. 

For  to  one  end  the  works  of  each  were  done. 
Between  Tupino  and  the  water  flowing  43 

Down  from  the  hill  blessed  Ubaldo  chose, 

A  fertile  slope  hangs  from  a  mountain  *s  height. 
From  which  Perugia's  Porta  Sole  feels  46 

The  cold  and  heat ;  behind  it  Gualdo  joins 

Nocera  to  bemoan  their  heavy  yoke. 
From  this  slope  at  the  place  where  most  it  breaks  49 


338  THE  DIVINE  COMEDY 

Its  steepness,  rose  upon  the  world  a  sun, 

As  from  the  Ganges  this  one  does  sometimes. 
Wherefore  let  him  who  of  this  place  would  talk  52 

Not  say  Ascesi, — that  were  speaking  short, — 

But  Orient,  if  he  would  fitly  speak. 
Not  from  his  rising  very  far  as  yet  55 

Did  he  begin  to  cause  the  earth  to  feel 

Of  his  great  virtue  certain  comforting; 
For  he  in  youth  incurred  his  father's  wrath  58 

For  such  a  lady,  to  whom,  as  to  death. 

The  gate  of  pleasure  is  unbarred  by  none ; 
And  in  the  presence  of  his  spiritual  court,  ^1 

Et  coram  patre  he  was  joined  to  her ; 

Thereafter  day  by  day  he  loved  her  more. 
Deprived  of  her  first  husband  she  remained  •* 

A  thousand  and  a  hundred  years  and  more 

Despised,  obscure,  even  till  him,  unwooed. 
To  hear  that  he,  who  made  the  world  to  fear,  ^7 

Had  found  her  with  Amyclas  free  from  care 

When  his  voice  sounded,  had  availed  her  not. 
Nor  had  availed  her  constancy  and  strength,  70 

Such  that,  when  Mary  at  its  foot  remained, 

Along  with  Christ  she  mounted  on  the  cross. 
But  lest  I  too  obscurely  should  proceed,  78 

Francis  and  Poverty  henceforth  regard 

As  these  two  lovers  in  my  speech  diffuse. 
Their  concord  and  their  looks  of  happiness  76 

Made  love  and  wonder  and  a  sweet  regard 

To  be  the  cause  of  holy  thoughts ;  so  that 
The  venerable  Bernard  was  the  first  79 

To  bare  his  feet,  and  following  such  peace, 

To  run,  and,  running,  to  himself  seem  slow. 
0  unknown  riches !    0  prolific  good !  82 

Egidius  bares  his  feet,  Sylvester  his, 


PARADISO,  XI  339 

Following  the  bridegroom,  so  the  bride  attracts. 
Then  goes  his  way  that  father  and  that  master  85 

With  her,  his  lady;  and  that  family 

Already  girded  with  the  humble  cord; 
Baseness  of  heart  did  not  weigh  down  his  brow  88 

For  being  Pietro  Bernardone's  son. 

Nor  for  appearing  marvelously  despised; 
But  he,  king-like,  opened  to  Innocent  ^1 

His  hard  intention,  and  from  him  received 

The  first  seal  for  his  Order.    Afterwards 
"When  the  poor  folk  had  grown  in  following  ^4 

After  that  one,  of  whom  the  marvelous  life 

Better  in  heaven's  glory  would  be  sung, 
The  Eternal  Spirit  through  Honorius  ^7 

Had  bound  the  circle  of  a  second  crown 

Upon  this  archimandrite's  holy  will. 
And  when  he  had,  through  thirst  for  martyrdom,  100 

In  the  proud  presence  of  the  Sultan  preached 

Christ  and  the  others  of  His  following. 
And,  since  he  found  the  people  too  unripe  103 

To  be  converted,  not  to  stay  in  vain. 

Returned  to  the  fruit  of  the  Italian  herbage, 
On  the  harsh  rock  Tiber  from  Amo  parting  106 

From  Christ  did  he  receive  the  final  seal, 

Which  for  two  years  his  members  bare  about. 
When  He,  who  to  such  good  set  him  apart,  109 

Was  pleased  to  draw  him  up  to  the  reward 

Which  by  his  self-abasement  he  had  earned, 
Unto  his  brethren  as  to  rightful  heirs  112 

His  dearest  Lady  he  commended,  while 

Commanding  that  they  love  her  faithfully ; 
And  from  her  bosom  the  illustrious  soul  115 

Willed  to  go  forth,  returning  to  its  realm, 

And  for  his  body  willed  no  other  bier. 


340  THE  DIVINE  COMEDY 

Think  now  what  that  one  was  who  worthily  H^ 

Could  be  a  colleague  to  keep  Peter's  bark 
On  the  deep  sea  upon  the  rightful  course ! 

And  this  our  patriarch  was ;  wherefore  whoe  'er  121 

Is  following  after  him  as  he  commands, 
Thou  mayst  discern  loads  goodly  merchandise. 

But  for  new  pasturage  his  flock  has  grown  1^4 

So  greedy  that  it  can  not  fail  to  be 
That  it  should  spread  abroad  through  various  glades ; 

And  by  as  much  as  they  go  farther  off  ^27 

From  him  remote  and  vagabond,  the  more 
Empty  of  milk  they  turn  back  to  the  fold. 

There  are  indeed  of  such  as  fear  the  harm  130 

And  cleave  close  to  the  shepherd ;  but  so  few, 
A  little  cloth  suffices  for  their  cowls. 

Now  if  the  words  I  utter  be  distinct,  133 

If  thou  attentive  be  in  listening. 
If  that  which  I  have  said  thou  call  to  mind, 

Thy  wish  will  be  content  in  part,  because  136 

The  plant,  from  which  this  hewing,  thou  shalt  see, 
And  see  how  reasons  he  who  wears  the  thong : — 

'Where  they  well  fatten,  if  they  wander  not.*  "  139 

CANTO  XII 

Soon  as  the  blessed  flame  had  taken  up 

The  final  word  to  give  it  utterance, 

Began  the  holy  mill-stone  to  revolve, 
And  in  its  wheeling  had  not  wholly  turned  * 

Before  another,  circling,  shut  it  in. 

Motion  to  motion  fitted,  song  to  song; 
Song  which  excels  that  of  our  muses  so,  7 

Our  sirens,  in  those  dulcet  pipes,  as  does 

A  primal  splendor  that  which  is  reflected. 


PARADISO,  XII  341 

Like  two  bows  curving  through  a  tender  cloud,  10 

Both  of  like  coloring  and  parallel, 

At  the  command  of  Juno  to  her  maid. 
The  one  without  born  of  the  one  within,  13 

Like  the  words  uttered  by  that  wanderer 

Consumed  by  love  as  vapor  by  the  sun ; 
And  causing  here  the  people  to  foreknow,  16 

Through  God's  established  covenant  with  Noah, 

About  the  world  no  more  to  be  submerged : 
So  of  those  sempiternal  roses  turned  1^ 

Around  us  the  two  garlands,  with,  likewise. 

The  outer  to  the  inner  answering. 
After  the  dancing  and  the  exalted,  grand  22 

Festivity  of  flaming  and  of  song, 

Light  full  of  joy  and  gentleness  with  light, 
Had  come  to  rest  at  once  and  with  one  will,  25 

Just  as  the  eyes  which  must  together  close 

And  open  at  the  pleasure  moving  them. 
Out  of  the  heart  of  one  of  these  new  lights  28 

There  came  a  voice,  which  made  me  seem  the  needle 

To  the  star  in  turning  me  to  where  it  was. 
And  said :  * '  The  Love  which  makes  me  beautiful  31 

Draws  me  of  the  other  leader  to  discourse. 

By  whom  is  spoken  here  so  well  of  mine. 
It  is  fit  that  where  one  is  the  other  be  34 

Led  in,  so  that  as  they  united  warred. 

Likewise  together  may  their  glory  shine. 
The  ranks  of  Christ,  which  it  has  cost  so  dear  37 

To  arm  again,  behind  the  standard  now 

Were  moving,  slow,  full  of  distrust  and  few. 
When  He,  who  reigns  forever  Emperor,  40 

Provided  for  the  imperiled  soldiery 

Through  grace  alone,  not  that  it  merited; 
And  as  was  said,  sent  to  His  Bride  as  aid  43 


342  THE  DIVINE  COMEDY 

Two  champions  at  whose  doings,  at  whose  words, 

The  people  gone  astray  correct  themselves. 
In  that  part  of  the  world  where  Zephyr  sweet  ^ 

Kises  to  open  the  new  leaves  with  which 

Europe  is  seen  to  clothe  herself  anew, 
Not  very  far  from  where  the  surges  beat,  *• 

Behind  which,  for  his  long,  swift  course,  the  sun 

Sometimes  from  every  man  conceals  himself, 
Is  Callaroga's  site,  the  fortunate,  52 

'Neath  the  great  shield's  protection,  upon  which 

The  lion  both  is  subject  and  subdues. 
Within  it  was  the  lover  amorous  55 

Of  the  Christian  faith,  the  holy  athlete,  born, 

Benignant  to  his  own,  and  harsh  to  his  foes. 
And,  soon  as  once  created,  was  his  mind  58 

With  living  virtue  so  replete,  that  in 

His  mother  it  made  her  a  prophetess. 
When  were  complete  between  him  and  the  Faith  ^1 

The  espousals  at  the  sacred  font,  where  each 

With  mutual  salvation  dowered  each. 
The  lady,  by  whom  the  assent  was  given  64 

For  him,  beheld  in  dream  the  marvelous  fruit 

That  was  to  issue  from  him  and  his  heirs ; 
And  that  he  might  be  what  he  was  in  name,  67 

A  spirit  went  forth  hence  that  he  be  called 

By  His  possessive  whose  he  wholly  was. 
And  Dominic  was  he  called.    I  speak  of  him  70 

As  of  the  tiller  of  the  field,  whom  Christ 

Elected  to  His  garden  for  His  aid. 
Truly  he  seemed  a  messenger  of  Christ  73 

And  His  familiar;  the  first  love  he  showed 

Was  for  the  first  of  counsels  given  by  Christ. 
Awake  and  silent  he  was  oftentimes  76 

Found  by  his  nurse  upon  the  ground,  as  though 


PARADISO,  XII  343 

He  would  have  said:  'It  is  for  this  I  came.' 
Oh,  truly  Felix,  thou  his  father  art !  79 

0  mother  his,  truly  Joanna  thou ! 

If  this  interpreted  means  as  is  said. 
Not  for  the  world,  for  which  men  now  are  toiling,  82 

Following  the  Ostian  and  Thaddeus, 

But  for  a  love  of  the  true  manna,  he 
In  little  time  to  a  great  teacher  grew,  85 

Such  that  he  set  himself  to  tend  the  vines, 

"Which  soon  grow  white,  if  the  vinedresser  fail; 
And  from  the  Seat,  which  to  the  righteous  poor  88 

Was  more  benign  ere  now, — not  in  itself. 

But  through  the  one  who  sits  degenerate, — 
Not  to  dispense  some  two  or  three  for  six,  &1 

Not  the  first  vacancy  in  fortune's  gift, 

Non  decimas  quae  sunt  pauperum  Dei, 
Asked  he ;  but  would  against  the  erring  world  84 

Have  leave  to  combat  for  that  seed,  of  which 

Are  four  and  twenty  plants  surrounding  thee. 
With  doctrine  and  with  will  together  then  ©7 

With  the  apostolic  office  he  moved  on 

Like  to  a  torrent  pressed  by  a  lofty  vein ; 
And  on  the  stocks  of  heresy  he  smote  100 

With  rushing  power,  there  most  instinct  with  life 

Where  the  resistance  was  most  vigorous. 
From  him  then  divers  streams  had  origin,  103 

Watering  the  garden  of  the  catholic 

So  that  its  bushes  stand  the  more  alive. 
If  such  was  one  wheel  of  the  chariot  106 

In  which  the  Holy  Church  made  her  defence, 

And  on  the  field  subdued  her  civil  strife. 
To  thee  in  truth  should  be  most  evident  109 

The  other's  excellence,  concerning  which 

So  courteous  was  Thomas  ere  I  came. 


344  THE  DIVINE  COMEDY 

The  track,  however,  which  the  highest  part  H* 

Of  its  circumference  made,  is  derelict. 

So  that  where  crust  was,  there  is  now  a  mould. 
His  household,  which  went  straight  on,  with  their  feet    1^5 

Upon  his  foot-prints,  are  so  turned  about 

That  he  in  front  treads  upon  him  behind. 
And  soon  shall  men  see  of  the  harvesting  118 

Of  that  ill  culture,  and  the  tare  complain 

That  of  the  granary  it  is  bereft. 
Yet  I  affirm,  that  whoso  leaf  by  leaf  121 

Would  search  our  volume  might  still  find  a  page 

Where  he  could  read :  *  I  am  what  I  am  wont ; ' 
But  it  will  not  be  from  Casale,  nor  124 

From  Acquasparta,  whence  such  come  that  one 

Evades  the  writing,  and  one  narrows  it. 
Bonaventura's  life  am  I,  who  sprang  127 

From  Bagnoregio,  who  e'er  placed  behind 

The  left-hand  care  in  his  great  offices. 
Illuminato  and  Augustine  are  here,  180 

Who  were  among  the  first  unsandaled  poor 

That  in  the  cord  made  themselves  friends  to  God. 
Hugh  of  Saint  Victor  is  along  with  them,  133 

And  Peter  Mangiadore;  and  Peter  of  Spain, 

Who  shines  below  in  his  twelve  books ;  and  Nathan, 
The  prophet;  and  the  metropolitan  136 

Chrysostom;  Anselm;  and  Donatus,  he 

Who  deigned  to  the  first  art  to  set  his  hand ; 
Raban  is  here,  and,  shining  at  my  side  131> 

Is  the  Calabrian  Abbot  Joachim, 

Who  with  prophetic  spirit  was  endowed. 
To  envy  of  so  great  a  paladin  142 

Have  I  been  moved  by  the  ardent  courtesy 

Of  Brother  Thomas  and  his  measured  words; 
And  with  me  has  been  moved  this  company.  *  *  1*5 


PARADISO,  XIII  345 


CANTO  XIII 

Let  him  imagine,  who  would  understand 
Aright  what  I  now  saw  (and  keep  the  image, 
While  I  am  speaking,  like  a  solid  rock). 

That  fifteen  stars,  which  in  their  different  fields  ^ 

The  heaven  vivify  with  radiance  such 
As  overcomes  all  denseness  of  the  air ; 

Imagine  that  the  Wain,  for  which  the  bosom  7 

Suffices  of  our  heaven  both  night  and  day. 
So  that  it  hides  not  when  it  turns  its  pole ; 

Imagine  that  the  opening  of  that  horn,  10 

Which  has  beginning  at  that  axle's  point 
On  which  the  Prime  Wheel  in  its  motion  turns, — 

Have  constituted  of  themselves  two  signs  13 

In  heaven  such  as  Minos'  daughter  made, 
Feeling  the  chill  of  death;  and  that  the  one 

Within  the  other  have  its  rays,  while  both  16 

Revolve  in  such  a  manner,  that  one  first 
Advance  and  have  the  other  following; 

And  he  shall  have  foreshadowed,  as  it  were,  1^ 

The  very  constellation's  two-fold  dance, 
Which  circled  round  the  point  at  which  I  was ; 

Since  it  is  by  as  much  beyond  our  use,  22 

As  is  beyond  Chiana's  wont  to  move 
That  heaven's  which  surpasses  all  the  rest. 

Not  Bacchus  there  nor  paean  did  they  sing  25 

But  divine  nature  in  its  Persons  three, 
And  It  with  the  human  in  one  Person  joined. 

The  measure  of  their  song  and  circling  filled,  28 

Those  holy  lights  attentive  were  to  us, 
Finding  felicity  from  care  to  care. 

In  those  harmonious  divinities  31 


346  THE  DIVINE  COMEDY 

The  silence  then  was  broken  by  that  light 

In  which  the  wondrous  life  of  God's  poor  man 
Was  told  me,  and  it  said :  *  *  When  the  one  straw  34 

Is  threshed,  when  its  seed  now  is  laid  away, 

Sweet  love  invites  me  to  beat  out  the  other. 
Thou  dost  believe  that  into  that  breast,  whence  37 

The  rib  was  drawn  to  form  the  cheeks  so  fair 

Of  her  whose  palate  costs  the  whole  world  dear, 
And  into  that  one  which,  pierced  by  the  lance,  ^ 

Before  and  since  such  satisfaction  made 

As  overcomes  the  balance  of  all  sin, 
Whatever  it  is  granted  to  possess  ^ 

Of  light  to  human  nature  by  that  Power 

Which  made  them  both  completely  was  infused. 
And  so  thou  wonderest  at  what  I  said  ^ 

Above,  when  I  told  that  no  second  had 

The  good,  which  in  the  fifth  light  is  enclosed. 
Open  thine  eyes  to  what  I  answer  now  ^^ 

And  thou  shalt  see  my  words  and  thy  belief 

Become  a  circle's  centre  in  the  truth. 
Both  that  which  dies  not  and  that  which  can  die  52 

Are  but  the  splendor  cast  by  that  idea 

Which  is  brought  forth  in  loving  by  our  Sire ; 
Because  that  living  light,  that  from  its  Fount  55 

Of  light  so  streams  that  It  parts  not  from  It 

Nor  from  the  Love  which  joins  with  them,  the  third, 
Of  its  own  goodness  makes  its  radiance  one,  58 

Mirrored,  as  it  were,  in  nine  subsistences. 

Itself  eternally  remaining  one. 
Thence  it  descends  to  the  last  potencies  ^' 

Downward  from  act  to  act  becoming  such 

As  then  to  cause  but  brief  contingencies; 
And  these  contingencies  I  understand  ^ 

To  be  the  generated  things  produced 


PARADISO,  XIII  347 

By  the  moving  heaven,  with  seed  and  without. 
The  wax  of  these  and  that  which  gives  it  form  ^7 

Is  not  of  one  mode,  and  so  'neath  the  signet 

Ideal,  then,  it  more  or  less  shines  through ; 
Whence  it  will  happen  that  a  tree,  the  same  70 

In  species,  bears  a  better  or  worse  fruit; 

And  ye  are  born  with  intellects  unlike. 
And  if  the  wax  were  perfectly  prepared,  73 

And  were  the  heavens  in  their  highest  power, 

The  whole  light  of  the  seal  would  then  appear, 
But  nature  gives  it  ever  with  defect,  76 

For  she  is  like  the  artist  at  his  work 

With  skill  in  art  and  with  a  trembling  hand. 
But  if  by  the  ardent  love,  the  Vision  clear  79 

Of  the  First  Power  be  disposed  and  stamped, 

All  of  perfection  has  been  there  acquired. 
Thus  was  the  earth  made  worthy  formerly  82 

Of  all  perfection  in  the  living  being; 

And  thus  was  made  the  Virgin  to  conceive. 
So  I  commend  the  opinion  thou  dost  hold  85 

That  human  nature  never  was  nor  e  'er 

Shall  be  what  it  in  those  two  persons  was. 
Now,  if  I  were  no  further  to  proceed,  88 

'  Then  how  can  it  be  said  that  that  one  was 

Without  an  equal  ? '  would  begin  thy  words. 
But,  so  that  what  appears  not  may  be  clear,  91 

Think  who  he  was,  and  of  the  cause  which  moved  him, 

When  Ask!  was  said  to  him,  to  make  request. 
I  have  not  spoken  so,  that  thou  canst  not  94 

See  plainly  that  he  was  a  king  who  chose 

Wisdom  that  he  might  be  a  king  indeed ; 
Not  for  the  knowing  in  what  number  are  97 

The  Motors  here  on  high,  nor  if  necesse 

With  a  contingent  ever  necesse  made ; 


348  THE  DIVINE  COMEDY 

Not,  si  est  dare  primum  motum  esse,  100 

Or,  if  in  the  semicircle  can  be  made 

A  triangle  and  not  rectangular. 
Wherefore,  if  thou  note  this  and  what  I  said,  1^3 

A  kingly  prudence  is  that  peerless  seeing, 

Which  with  its  arrow  my  intention  strikes. 
And  if  thou  turn  clear  eyes  to  the  '  has  risen, '  106 

Thou  wilt  observe  that  solely  it  respects 

Kings  who  are  many,  and  the  good  are  rare. 
With  this  distinction  take  what  I  have  said  109 

Which  thus  can  stand  with  what  thou  dost  believe 

Of  the  first  father  and  of  our  Beloved. 
And  be  this  ever  to  thy  feet  as  lead  112 

To  make  thee  slow  to  move,  as  one  fatigued, 

Both  to  the  yea  and  nay  which  thou  seest  not ; 
For  he  is  very  low  among  the  fools,  115 

Who  makes  an  affirmation  or  denies 

Without  distinction  in  this  case  or  that; 
Because  it  comes  to  pass  that  oftentimes  US 

The  rash  opinion  leans  toward  the  false, 

And  then  self-love  will  bind  the  intellect. 
For  more  than  vainly  does  he  leave  the  shore  121 

Since  he  returns  not  such  as  he  sets  out, 

Who  fishes  for  the  truth  and  has  not  skill ; 
And  of  this  are  Parmenides,  Melissus,  12* 

Bryson,  and  many  such  as  went  their  way 

Not  knowing  whither,  open  proofs  to  the  world. 
Sabellius  and  Arius,  and  those  fools  127 

Did  so,  who  were  as  swords  to  Holy  Writ 

In  making  faces  crooked  that  were  straight. 
Let  not  the  folk  be  yet  too  confident  130 

In  judging,  as  he  is  who  in  the  field 

Would  reckon  up  the  ears  ere  they  are  ripe; 
For  I  have  seen  all  winter  long  at  first  l^ 


PARADISO,  XIV  349 


The  briar  show  itself  rigid,  ungentle, 

And  later  bear  the  rose  upon  its  tip ; 
And  I  saw  once  a  ship,  that  straight  and  swift  ^36 

Had  sailed  across  the  sea  on  its  whole  course 

At  last  to  perish  at  the  harbor's  mouth. 
Let  not  Dame  Bertha  think  or  Goodman  Martin,  139 

For  seeing  one  man  rob,  another  pray. 

That  they  have  seen  them  in  the  plan  of  God ; 
For  one  of  them  may  rise,  the  other  fall. ' '  142 


CANTO  XIV 

From  a  round  vessel's  centre  to  its  rim 

Or  from  its  rim  to  centre  water  moves 

As  it  is  struck  within  or  from  outside. 
Into  my  mind  had  fallen  suddenly  4 

What  I  am  saying  at  the  moment  when 

The  glorious  life  of  Thomas  ceased  to  speak, 
Because  of  the  similitude  which  rose  7 

Of  speech  of  his  and  that  of  Beatrice, 

Whom  after  him  it  pleased  thus  to  begin : 
* '  This  man  has  need, — and  tells  you  not  of  it,  10 

Neither  by  voice  nor  by  his  thought  as  yet, — 

Of  following  to  its  root  another  truth. 
Tell  him  if  it  shall  so  be  that  the  light,  13 

With  which  your  substance  blossoms,  will  remain 

With  you  eternally  as  it  is  now; 
And,  if  it  do  remain,  say  to  him  how,  16 

When  ye  shall  be  again  made  visible, 

It  can  be  that  it  injure  not  your  sight. ' ' 
As  when  by  greater  gladness  urged  and  drawn  19 

Those  dancing  in  a  ring  will  all  at  once 

Raise  up  their  voice  and  lend  their  motions  joy, 


350  THE  DIVINE  COMEDY 


22 


So  at  her  eager  and  devout  request 

The  holy  circles  showed  a  new  delight 

In  turning  and  in  wondrous  melody. 
Whoso  laments  for  this  that  here  we  die  ^ 

To  live  up  there  on  high,  has  not  beheld 

There  the  refreshment  of  the  eternal  rain. 
That  One  and  Two  and  Three  which  ever  lives,  ^ 

And  ever  reigns  in  Three  and  Two  and  One, 

Not  circumscribed,  and  circumscribing  all, 
Three  times  was  by  each  of  those  spirits  sung  *1 

"With  such  a  melody  as  well  might  be 

Of  every  merit  fitting  recompense. 
And  I  heard,  in  the  lesser  circle 's  light  3* 

The  most  divine,  a  modest  voice,  perchance 

Such  as  the  Angel 's  was  to  Mary,  thus 
Reply :  "  As  long  as  lasts  the  festival  87 

Of  Paradise,  so  long  our  love  shall  cast 

About  us  such  a  vesture  *s  radiance. 
Its  brightness  shall  be  as  our  ardor  is,  *0 

Our  ardor  as  our  vision,  and  that  such 

As  is  the  grace  it  has  above  its  worth. 
When,  glorious  and  sanctified,  the  flesh 

Shall  be  put  on  again,  our  persons  then 

Will  be  more  pleasing,  being  all  complete ; 
Wherefore,  whatever  of  gratuitous  light 

The  Supreme  Good  gives  us  will  be  increased, 

Light  which  prepares  us  for  beholding  Him; 
Whence  it  must  be  the  vision  shall  increase,  *^ 

Increase  the  ardor  which  by  that  is  kindled, 

Increase  the  radiance  which  comes  from  this. 
But  even  as  a  coal  which  gives  a  flame  52 

That  by  a  vivid  glowing  it  outdoes 

So  that  it  guards  its  semblance,  thus 
Shall  this  effulgence,  which  now  circles  us  55 


43 


46 


PARADISO,  XIV  351 

Be  in  appearance  by  that  flesh  surpassed 

Which  all  this  while  the  earth  is  covering; 
Nor  can  so  great  light  weary  us,  because  58 

The  organs  of  the  body  shall  be  strong 

For  all  that  which  can  then  give  us  delight/' 
So  ready  and  so  eager  seemed  to  me  ^1 

Both  one  and  the  other  choir  to  say  Amen, 

They  showed  for  their  dead  bodies  true  desire. 
Perhaps  not  only  for  themselves,  but  too  64 

For  mothers,  fathers,  and  the  rest  held  dear 

Before  they  had  become  eternal  flames. 
And  lo,  around  in  brightness  uniform,  67 

A  lustre  rose  beyond  that  which  was  there, 

Like  a  horizon  that  is  growing  bright. 
As  at  the  rise  of  early  evening  70 

Begin  in  the  heavens  new  appearances 

So  that  the  sight  will  seem  and  not  seem  true : 
It  seemed  to  me  that  new  subsistences  73 

I  there  began  to  see,  and  a  ring  form 

Outside  the  other  two, circumferences. 
0  very  sparkling  of  the  Holy  Spirit !  76 

How  sudden  and  how  glowing  it  became 

Before  my  eyes,  that,  vanquished,  bore  it  not ! 
But  Beatrice,  so  smiling-beautiful  79 

Then  showed  herself  to  me,  it  must  be  left 

Among  those  sights  that  followed  not  the  mind. 
Thence  my  eyes  took  new  power  to  lift  themselves  ^2 

Once  more,  and  with  my  Lady  now  alone 

I  saw  myself  to  higher  bliss  translated. 
That  I  was  lifted  higher  I  well  perceived  85 

By  the  enkindled  smiling  of  the  star 

Which  seemed  to  be  more  ruddy  than  its  wont. 
With  all  my  heart,  and  with  that  speech  which  is  ^8 

One  and  the  same  in  all,  I  made  to  God 


352  THE  DIVINE  COMEDY 

A  holocaust  befitting  the  new  grace; 

And  not  yet  was  exhausted  in  my  breast  •! 

The  ardor  of  the  sacrifice  before 
I  knew  my  offering  had  been  received 

Propitiously;  for  with  such  ruddy  glowing  ^ 

Splendors  appeared  within  two  rays,  I  said : 
**0  Helios,  who  so  adomest  them!" 

Even  as  with  lesser  and  with  greater  lights  ^^ 

Marked  out,  the  Milky  Way  appears  so  white 
Between  the  poles  of  the  world,  the  truly  wise 

Are  made  to  doubt,  so,  starry  in  Mars'  depths,  ^^ 

Those  rays  made  up  the  venerable  sign 
Which  in  a  circle  quadrants  joining  make. 

And  here  my  memory  outstrips  my  wit ;  ^03 

Because  in  such  wise  that  cross  flashed  forth  Christ, 
Aught  to  compare  with  it  I  can  not  find. 

But  he  who  takes  his  cross  and  follows  Christ  106 

Shall  yet  excuse  me  for  what  I  say  not 
When  in  His  glowing  lightning  he  sees  Christ. 

From  horn  to  horn  and  between  top  and  base  109 

Were  lights  in  motion,  glistening  brilliantly 
As  they  would  meet  each  other  or  would  pass. 

Thus  are  the  particles  of  bodies  here,  1^2 

Straight  and  awry,  in  motion  swift  and  slow, 
In  their  appearance  changing,  long  and  short, 

Seen  moving  in  the  light,  of  which  a  band  115 

Is  sometimes  in  the  darkness  men  procure 
For  their  protection  with  their  thought  and  skill. 

As  harp  and  viol  well  attempered,  strung  118 

Of  many  strings,  make  sweetly  tinkling  sounds 
To  him  by  whom  the  meaning  is  not  grasped, 

So  from  the  lights  which  there  appeared  to  me  121 

Was  gathered  through  the  cross  a  melody 
Which  rapt  me,  though  I  knew  not  what  the  hymn. 


PARADISO,  XV  353 

I  knew  full  well  it  was  of  lofty  praise,  124 

For  ^^Rise  and  conquer  T'  came  to  me,  who  was 
As  one  who  understood  not  and  yet  heard. 

So  much  enamoured  with  it  I  became  127 

That  until  then  there  was  not  anything 
Had  held  me  bound  with  fettering  so  sweet. 

Perchance  my  words  appear  too  confident,  130 

Deeming  the  pleasure  less  of  those  fair  eyes 
In  which  I  gaze  and  longing  is  at  rest. 

But  who  considers  that  the  living  seals  133 

Of  every  beauty  have  more  power,  the  higher. 
And  that  I  had  not  there  turned  round  to  them. 

He  can  excuse  me  wherein  I  accuse  136 

Myself  for  my  excusing,  and  may  see 
That  I  speak  truth;  for  the  holy  joy  is  here 

Not  banned,  since  it  grows  purer  as  it  mounts.  139 


CANTO  XV 

A  WILL  benign, — into  which  ever  love 

That  righteously  inspires  resolves  itself. 

As  into  evil  will,  cupidity, — 
Silence  imposed  on  that  sweet-sounding  lyre,  * 

And  caused  to  come  to  rest  the  holy  strings. 

Which  heaven 's  right  hand  both  loosens  and  makes  tense. 
How  shall  to  righteous  prayers  those  substances  7 

Be  deaf,  who,  that  they  might  give  me  the  will 

To  pray  to  them,  were  still,  with  one  accord? 
It  is  well  that  without  end  one  should  lament  10 

Who,  for  the  love  of  aught  that  does  not  last, 

Despoils  himself  forever  of  that  love. 
As  through  the  tranquil  and  pure  evening  skies  13 

Rushes  from  time  to  time  a  sudden  fire. 


22 


28 


354  THE  DIVINE  COMEDY 

Causing  to  move  the  eyes  that  were  at  ease, 
And  seems  to  be  a  star  that  changes  place,  1* 

Save  that  from  where  it  was  enkindled,  naught 

Is  lost,  and  its  enduring  is  but  brief : 
So  from  the  arm  which  stretches  to  the  right  ^* 

Down  to  that  cross's  foot  there  ran  a  star 

From  out  the  constellation  that  shone  there; 
Not  from  its  ribbon  did  the  gem  depart, 

But  through  the  radial  band  it  ran  along, 

As  it  were  a  fire  through  alabaster  seen. 
With  such  affection  did  Anchises'  shade 

Come  forward,  if  we  trust  our  greatest  Muse, 

When  in  Elysium  he  perceived  his  son. 
''0  sanguis  meus,  0  superinfusa 

Gratia  Dei,  sicut  tihi,  cui 

Bis  unquam  coeli  ianua  reclusaf 
Thus  spoke  that  light ;  so  I  gave  heed  to  it.  ^1 

Then  to  my  Lady  I  turned  back  my  gaze, 

And  at  the  sight  of  both  was  struck  with  awe. 
For  there  within  her  eyes  glowed  such  a  smile  34 

That  I  thought  with  my  own  to  touch  the  depths 

Both  of  my  grace  and  of  my  Paradise. 
Then,  joyous  both  to  hear  and  look  upon,  37 

The  spirit  added  to  his  first  words  things 

I  understood  not,  so  profound  his  speech ; 
Nor  did  he  hide  himself  from  me  by  choice  *0 

But  by  necessity,  for  his  conception 

Above  the  mark  of  mortals  raised  itself. 
And  when  the  bow  of  his  affection's  fire  ^3 

Had  spent  so  much  of  heat,  that  his  words  fell 

Toward  the  mark  of  our  intelligence. 
The  first  thing  that  was  understood  by  me  ^^ 

Was  this:  ''Blessed  be  Thou,  0  Three  and  One, 

Who  art  so  greatly  courteous  in  my  seed!** 


PARADISO,  XV  355 

And  then :  ' '  A  hunger  pleasing  and  long  felt,  4^ 

From  the  great  volume's  reading  drawn,  in  which 

Is  never  any  change  of  white  or  black, 
Thou  hast  relieved,  my  son,  within  this  light,  52 

In  which  I  speak  to  thee,  thanks  be  to  her. 

Who  gave  thee  feathers  for  the  lofty  flight. 
Thou  dost  believe  that  thy  thought  streams  to  me  55 

From  that  One  who  is  First,  as  radiate 

From  one,  if  that  be  known,  the  five  and  six ; 
And  so  thou  dost  not  ask  me  who  I  am,  58 

And  why  more  joyful  I  appear  to  thee 

Than  any  other  in  this  happy  throng. 
Thou  dost  believe  the  truth,  because  the  lesser  61 

And  great  of  this  life  on  that  mirror  gaze. 

In  which,  ere  thou  dost  think,  thou  spread 'st  thy  thought. 
But,  that  the  sacred  love,  in  which  I  watch  64 

With  ceaseless  vision,  and  which  makes  me  thirst 

With  sweet  desire,  may  better  be  fulfilled, 
Let  now  thy  voice  secure,  happy  and  bold  67 

Sound  forth  the  will,  sound  the  desire,  to  which 

My  answer  has  already  been  decreed." 
I  turned  to  Beatrice,  and  she  had  heard  76 

Before  I  spoke,  and  granted  me  a  sign 

Which  made  to  grow  the  wings  of  my  desire. 
Then  said  I:  ''When  the  Prime  Equality  73 

Appeared  to  you,  as  of  one  weight  became 

Affection  and  intelligence  to  each ; 
Because  the  sun,  which  with  his  heat  and  light  76 

Made  you  to  glow  and  burn,  so  equal  is 

That  all  comparisons  with  it  fall  short. 
But  will  in  mortals  and  their  faculty,  79 

For  reason  that  is  manifest  to  you, 

Are  variously  feathered  in  their  wings. 
Whence  I,  a  mortal,  feel  myself  in  this  82 


356  THE  DIVINE  COMEDY 

Unequal  state,  and  so,  save  with  my  heart. 

For  thy  paternal  welcome  give  not  thanks. 
But,  living  topaz,  thee  I  supplicate,  86 

Who  gem-like  in  this  precious  jewel  art, 

That  thou  wouldst  satisfy  me  with  thy  name.*' 
*  *  0  leaf  of  mine,  in  whom  I  took  delight  88 

In  mere  expectancy,  I  was  thy  root." 

Such  a  beginning  made  he,  answering ; 
Then  said  to  me :  ' '  That  one  from  whom  is  named  ^1 

Thy  family,  and  who  a  hundred  years 

And  more  circles  the  Mountain 's  lowest  round. 
He  was  my  son,  and  thy  great-grandsire ;  truly  ^* 

It  were  befitting  that  thou  shortenedst 

For  him  the  long  fatigue  with  works  of  thine. 
P^'lorence  within  the  ancient  circling  walls,  ^^ 

From  which  she  still  receives  both  tierce  and  nones, 

Was  then  in  peace  abiding,  sober,  chaste. 
No  necklace  had  she  and  no  coronet,  ^^ 

No  dames  with  broidered  shoes,  no  girdle  worn 

More  to  be  looked  at  than  the  wearer  *s  self. 
No  daughter  at  her  birth  as  yet  would  cause  l^^ 

Fear  in  her  father,  for  the  time  and  dowry 

Did  not  exceed  the  bound  this  side  or  that. 
She  had  no  houses  void  of  families ;  1^ 

Nor  yet  had  Sardanapalus  arrived 

To  show  what  in  a  chamber  may  be  done. 
Nor  yet  had  Montemalo  been  surpassed  ^^^ 

By  your  Uccellatoio;  which,  as  surpassed 

In  mounting  up,  so  shall  be  in  its  fall. 
Bellincion  Berti  I  have  seen  go  girt  112 

With  leather  and  with  bone,  and  his  dame  leave 

Her  mirror  and  not  have  a  painted  face ; 
Him  of  the  Nerli,  him  of  the  Vecchio,  too,  1^5 

I  have  seen  contented  with  their  furs  unlined, 


PARADISO,  XV  357 

And  their  dames  with  the  spindle  and  the  flax. 

0  fortune-favored  women!    Each  of  them  118 
Sure  of  her  burial-place,  and  none  as  yet 

Deserted  in  her  bed  because  of  France! 
And  one  would  watch  the  cradle  carefully,  ^21 

And  comforting,  would  use  the  speech  which  first 

To  fathers  and  to  mothers  gives  delight; 
Another,  as  she  from  the  distaff  drew  124 

The  thread,  would  to  her  household  tell  the  tales 

About  the  Trojans,  Fiesole  and  Rome. 
For  a  Cianghella,  a  Lapo  Saltarello,  127 

Would  have  been  reckoned  then  as  marvelous 

As  Cincinnatus  or  Cornelia  now. 
To  so  reposeful,  to  so  fair  a  life  130 

Of  citizens,  to  a  community 

So  trusty,  and  to  such  a  pleasant  inn, 
Mary,  appealed  to  with  loud  cries,  gave  me,  133 

And  in  your  ancient  Baptistery,  at  once 

Christian  and  Cacciaguida  I  became. 
Moronto  was  my  brother,  and  Eliseo ;  136 

My  wife  came  from  the  valley  of  the  Po, 

And  from  that  source  thy  surname  was  derived. 

1  followed,  next,  Conrad,  the  Emperor,  139 
And  he  girt  me  as  of  his  soldiery. 

Into  such  favor  came  I  by  good  work. 
Following  him,  I  went  against  that  law  142 

Iniquitous,  whose  people  now  usurp 

Through  guiltiness  of  pastors,  your  just  rights. 
In  that  place  and  by  that  foul  folk  was  I  145 

Loosed  from  the  bands  of  the  deceitful  world, 

By  love  of  which  are  many  souls  defiled ; 
And  came  from  martyrdom  unto  this  peace.  *'  1*8 


358  THE  DIVINE  COMEDY 


CANTO  XVI 

How  petty  our  nobility  of  blood! 

If  thou  dost  make  the  folk  to  boast  of  thee 

Down  here  where  our  affection  languishes, 
It  will  no  more  be  marvelous  to  me ;  * 

For  there  where  appetite  is  never  wrong, 

I  say  in  heaven,  I  made  my  boast  of  it. 
Truly  thou  art  a  cloak  soon  shortening,  7 

So  that,  if  naught  be  added  day  by  day, 

Time  will  go  round  about  thee  with  his  shears. 
With  You,  which  Rome  was  first  to  tolerate,  10 

In  which  her  family  least  perseveres. 

My  words  began  again ;  and  Beatrice, 
Who  was  apart  from  us  a  little  then,  18 

Smiling  thereat,  seemed  like  the  one  who  coughed 

At  the  first  fault  written  of  Guenever. 
**You  are  my  father,"  I  began  to  say,  1* 

**You  give  me  all  my  confidence  to  speak. 

You  so  uplift  me,  I  am  more  than  I. 
Gladness  is  filling  by  so  many  streams  !• 

My  mind,  that  it  makes  of  itself  a  joy. 

In  that  it  can  endure  this  and  burst  not. 
May  you  then  tell  me,  my  dear  forefather,  22 

Who  were  your  ancestors,  and  what  the  years 

That  were  recorded  in  your  boyhood's  time. 
Tell  me  about  the  sheepfold  of  Saint  John,  25 

How  large  it  was  then,  and  who  the  people  were 

Worthy  to  have  the  highest  seats  in  it. ' ' 
As  at  the  breathing  of  the  wind  a  coal  2* 

Is  quickened  into  flame,  so  I  beheld 

That  light  glow  brighter  at  my  blandishments; 
As  to  my  eyes  it  grew  more  beautiful,  3^ 


PARADISO,  XVI  359 

So  with  a  voice  more  sweet  and  soft,  but  not 

In  modern  utterance,  he  said  to  me: 
''From  that  day  when  Ave  was  said  until  34 

The  birth  in  which  my  mother,  sainted  now, 

Was  lightened  of  the  burden  I  had  been. 
This  fire  had  come  five  hundred,  fifty  times  37 

And  thirty  to  its  Lion,  that  it  there 

Might  reinflame  itself  beneath  his  paw. 
My  ancestors  and  I  had  our  birth-place  40 

Where  the  last  ward  is  first  encountered  by 

Him  who  is  running  in  your  annual  games. 
Let  this  thou  hearest  of  my  elders  be  43 

Enough ;  of  who  they  were  and  whence  they  came 

It  is  fitter  to  keep  silence  than  discourse. 
All  those  who  at  that  time  were  able  there  46 

Between  Mars  and  the  Baptist  to  bear  arms 

Were  as  the  fifth  part  of  the  living  now. 
The  citizenry,  though  a  mixture  now  49 

From  Campi,  from  Certaldo  and  Fighine, 

Was  then  seen  pure  jin  the  lowest  artisan. 
Oh,  how  much  better  were  it  if  the  folk  52 

That  I  have  named  were  neighbors,  and  to  have 

Galleazzo  and  Trespiano  at  your  bounds. 
Than  to  have  them  within  and  bear  the  stench  55 

Of  Aguglione's  churl,  of  Signa's,  who 

Already  has  eyes  keen  for  barratry ! 
If  that  folk  most  degenerate  on  earth  58 

Had  been  to  Caesar  not  a  step-mother 

But  kindly,  as  a  mother  to  her  son, 
A  money-changing,  trading  Florentine  61 

New-made  would  be  turned  back  to  Simifonti 

Where  his  grandfather  went  about  and  begged; 
And  Montemurlo  would  be  still  the  Counts',  ^ 

The  Cerchi  in  Acone  's  parish  still, 


360  THE  DIVINE  COMEDY 

Perhaps  the  Buondelmonti  in  Valdigreve. 
An  intermingling  made  of  persons  ever  ^7 

Was  a  beginning  of  the  city's  harm, 

As  in  the  body  is  superfluous  food. 
A  blind  bull  is  more  headlong  in  his  fall  70 

Than  the  blind  lamb ;  and  many  a  time  one  sword 

Does  more  and  better  cutting  than  the  five. 
If  thou  regard  Luni  and  Urbisaglia,  78 

How  they  have  gone,  and  how  are  passing  on 

Chiusi  and  Sinigaglia  after  them; 
To  hear  how  families  are  undone  will  not  76 

Appear  to  thee  a  novel  thing  nor  hard, 

Since  even  cities  have  their  term  of  life. 
Your  things  have  all  of  them  their  death,  even  as  79 

Yourselves,  but  it  conceals  itself  in  such 

Of  them  as  long  endure ;  and  lives  are  short. 
And  as  the  heaven  of  the  moon  revolves,  82 

Covering,  uncovering,  without  pause  the  shores. 

Even  so  with  Florence  fortune  deals;  wherefore 
Should  not  appear  to  thee  a  marvelous  thing  85 

What  I  shall  tell  of  the  high  Florentines, 

Of  whom  the  fame  is  hidden  by  time.    I  saw 
The  Ughi,  the  Catellini,  Filippi,  88 

Greci,  Ormanni,  and  Albertini,  even 

In  their  decline  illustrious  citizens. 
And  I  saw  these,  as  great  as  they  were  old,  91 

With  him  of  La  Sannella,  him  of  L'Arca, 

And  Soldanieri,  and  Ardinghi,  and  Bostichi. 
Over  the  gate,  which  is  at  present  laden  W 

With  such  great  weight  of  recent  felony 

That  soon  there  will  be  jetsam  from  the  bark, 
The  Ravignani  dwelt,  from  whom  descended  ^7 

Is  the  Count  Guido,  and  whoever  since 

Has  taken  on  high  Bellincione 's  name. 


PARADISO,  XVI  361 

He  of  La  Pressa  knew  already  how  ^00 

One  needs  to  rule,  and  Galigaio  had 

Already  hilt  and  pummel  gilt  at  home. 
The  column  of  the  Vaio  was  great  already,  1^3 

Sacchetti,  Giuocchi,  Fifanti  and  Barucci, 

The  Galli,  and  those  the  bushel  makes  to  blush. 
The  stock  whence  the  Calfucci  sprang  was  great  1^6 

Already,  and  the  Sizii  and  Arrigucci 

Had  been  already  drawn  to  the  curule  chairs. 
Oh,  how  great  saw  I  those  who  are  undone  109 

By  their  own  pride !    And  with  all  their  great  deeds 

The  balls  of  gold  kept  Florence  flourishing. 
So  did  the  forefathers  of  those  who  now  112 

Grow  fat  remaining  in  consistory 

"Whenever  in  your  church  the  see  is  vacant. 
The  overweening  stock,  that  dragon-like  115 

Is  at  his  heels  who  flees,  but  is  a  lamb 

To  him  who  shows  his  teeth,  or  purse  forsooth, 
Was  coming  up  already,  but  of  folk  118 

So  humble,  Ubertin  Dpnato  grieved 

When  made  their  kinsman  by  his  father-in-law. 
Already  Caponsacco  had  come  down  121 

From  Fiesole  to  the  market-place,  and  Giuda 

And  Infangato  were  good  citizens. 
I  say  a  thing  incredible  and  true :  124 

You  reached  the  little  circle  by  a  gate 

To  which  those  of  La  Pera  gave  the  name. 
Of  those  who  bear  the  ensign  beautiful  127 

Of  the  great  baron,  whose  renown  and  worth 

The  feast  of  Thomas  reconfirms,  each  one 
Received  from  him  knighthood  and  privilege;  130 

Although  that  one  who  binds  it  with  a  fringe 

Is  with  the  common  people  joined  today. 
The  Gualterotti  and  Importuni  throve  133 


362  THE  DIVINE  COMEDY 

Already;  Borgo  were  now  quieter, 

If  from  new  neighbors  they  had  kept  a  fast. 

The  house,  from  which  was  bom  your  weeping,  sprung     136 
From  righteous  indignation  that  brought  you 
Your  death,  making  your  happy  life  to  end, 

Was  honored,  both  itself  and  its  allies.  ^39 

0  Buondelmonte,  how  wrongly  thou  didst  flee 
Its  nuptials  through  another 's  counseling ! 

Happy  would  many  be  who  now  are  sad,  ^^ 

If  to  the  Ema  God  had  yielded  thee. 

When  to  the  city  thou  first  mad'st  thy  way ! 
But  it  was  due  that  mutilated  stone  1^5 

Which  guards  the  bridge,  that  Florence  offer  it 

A  victim  in  her  final  days  of  peace. 
With  these  and  other  families  with  them  1*8 

Florence  I  saw  in  such  repose,  that  she 

Had  no  occasion  why  she  should  lament ; 
And  with  these  families  her  populace  151 

1  saw  so  glorious  and  so  just,  the  lily 
Was  never  set  reversed  upon  the  staff 

Nor  through  dissensions  to  vermilion  changed.*'  154 


CANTO  XVII 

As  came  to  Clymene,  that  he  might  learn 
Of  that  which  he  had  heard  against  himself, 
The  one  who  still  makes  fathers  to  their  sons 

Reluctant, — such  was  I,  and  such  was  deemed 
By  Beatrice,  and  by  the  holy  lamp 
Which  previously  for  me  had  changed  its  place. 

Wherefore  my  Lady  said  to  me :  * '  Send  forth 
The  flame  of  thy  desire  so  that  it  come 
Clearly  impressed  from  the  internal  stamp; 


PARADISO,  XVII  363 

Not  that  our  knowledge  may  increase  through  that  l^ 

Thou  say'st,  but  that  thou  may'st  accustom  thee 
To  tell  thy  thirst,  that  one  pour  out  for  thee." 

^ '  0  dear  earth-spring  of  mine,  who  now  dost  so  13 

Uplift  thyself,  thou  seest  contingent  things, — 
As  earthly  minds  see  that  there  can  not  be 

Two  angles  of  a  triangle  obtuse, —  16 

Ere  in  themselves  they  are,  while  thou  dost  gaze 
Upon  the  Point,  to  which  all  times  are  now ; 

While  I  was  still  in  Virgil's  company  1^ 

Upward  along  the  Mount  which  cures  the  souls, 
And  going  downward  in  the  world  of  death. 

Grave  words  about  the  future  of  my  life  22 

Were  said  to  me;  although  I  feel  myself 
Truly  four-square  against  the  blows  of  chance. 

Wherefore  my  will  would  be  content  to  learn  25 

What  is  the  fortune  drawing  nigh  for  me. 
For  slower  comes  the  arrow  once  foreseen.'' 

Thus  spoke  I  unto  that  same  light  which  erst  28 

To  me  had  spoken,  and  as  Beatrice 
Had  willed  it,  had  my  longing  been  confessed. 

Not  with  ambiguous  phrase,  with  which  were  limed  31 

The  foolish  formerly,  ere  He  was  slain. 
The  Lamb  of  God,  who  takes  away  our  sins. 

But  with  clear  words  and  with  precise  discourse  34 

That  love  as  of  a  father  answered  me, 
Enclosed  and  manifest  in  its  own  smile: 

' '  Contingency,  which  stretches  not  beyond  37 

The  volume  of  your  things  material. 
Is  all  depicted  in  the  Eternal  Vision ; 

But  yet  from  thence  takes  it  necessity  40 

No  more  than  from  the  sight  which  mirrors  it 
A  vessel  which  is  going  down  the  stream. 

From  That,  as  to  the  ear  sweet  harmony  43 


364  THE  DIVINE  COMEDY 

Comes  from  an  organ,  comes  to  me  the  sight 

Of  times  which  now  prepare  themselves  for  thee. 
As  through  his  cruel,  false  step-mother's  act  ^ 

Hippolytus  left  Athens,  even  so 

Must  thou  leave  Florence.    This  is  willed,  this  now 
Is  sought  for,  and  will  soon  he  brought  to  pass  *^ 

By  him  whose  mind  is  on  it  in  that  place 

Where  Christ  is  every  day  a  merchandise. 
The  blame  shall  follow  the  defeated  side  52 

In  outcry,  as  is  wont ;  but  vengeance  shall 

Bear  witness  to  the  Truth  dispensing  it. 
Thou  shalt  leave  everything  which  thou  dost  love  55 

Most  tenderly,  and  this  shall  be  the  bolt 

Which  by  the  bow  of  exile  is  shot  first. 
Thou  shalt  experience  how  salt  the  taste  W 

Of  others'  bread,  and  how  the  path  is  hard 

Descending  and  ascending  others'  stairs. 
And  what  will  load  thy  shoulders  heaviest  ^ 

Will  be  the  evil,  senseless  company 

With  which  thou  art  to  fall  into  this  vale ; 
Which  all  ingrates,  all  mad  and  furious,  W 

Will  turn  against  thee,  but  thereafter  soon 

Shall  it,  not  thou,  have  temples  red  for  that. 
Of  their  bestiality  their  own  procedure  <J7 

Will  give  the  proof ;  so  that  it  well  beseems 

To  make  thyself  a  party  by  thyself. 
The  first  refuge  for  thee  and  the  first  inn  70 

Shall  be  of  the  great  Lombard's  courtesy 

Who  on  the  ladder  bears  the  holy  bird, 
Who  will  hold  thee  in  such  benign  regard,  73 

That  what  is  slowest  done  and  asked  between 

All  others  shall  be  first  between  you  two. 
With  him  thou  shalt  see  that  one,  who  at  birth  76 

Received  such  impress  from  this  mighty  star, 


PARADISO,  XVII  365 

That  all  his  doings  shall  be  notable. 
Not  yet  have  men  become  aware  of  him  79 

Because  of  youthf ulness ;  because  these  wheels 

Have  only  through  nine  years  around  him  turned. 
But  ere  the  Gascon  cheat  the  lofty  Henry  82 

Some  sparkles  of  his  virtue  shall  appear 

In  unconcern  for  money  and  for  toils. 
And  his  magnificences  shall  be  known  85 

So  well  hereafter,  that  for  them  his  foes 

Will  not  be  able  to  keep  mute  their  tongues. 
Look  thou  to  him  and  to  his  benefits;  88 

Through  him  shall  many  people  be  transformed, 

Changing  condition,  rich  and  mendicant, 
And  thou  shalt  bear  hence,  written  in  thy  mind  91 

Of  him,  but  shalt  not  tell  it — " ;  and  he  said 

Things  past  belief  of  those  who  shall  be  there. 
Then  added :  ' '  Son,  these  are  interpretings  ^^ 

Of  what  was  said  to  thee ;  behold  the  snares 

Hidden  behind  few  revolutions  more. 
Yet  I  would  not  that  thou  shouldst  hold  in  hate  97 

Thy  neighbors,  for  thy  life  shall  far  outlast 

The  punishment  of  their  perfidious  deeds.'' 
Since  by  its  silence  now  the  holy  soul  100 

Showed  it  had  finished  the  inserted  woof 

Into  the  web  I  held  out  warped  to  it, 
Then  I  began,  like  one  who  in  his  doubt  103 

Has  longing  for  the  counsel  of  some  one 

Who  sees,  and  wills  straightforwardly,  and  loves : 
**  Clearly  I  see,  my  father,  how  the  time  ^06 

Is  spurring  toward  me  to  give  such  a  blow 

As  heaviest  falls  on  him  who  most  gives  up ; 
So  with  foresight  it  is  good  to  arm  myself,  109 

That,  if  the  place  most  dear  be  taken  from  me, 

I  may  not  lose  the  others  by  my  songs. 


366  THE  DIVINE  COMEDY 

Down  through  the  infinitely  bitter  world,  112 

And  on  the  Mountain,  from  whose  summit  fair 

I  was  uplifted  by  my  Lady's  eyes. 
And  afterwards  through  heaven  from  light  to  light         1^5 

I  have  learned  that  which,  if  I  tell  again 

Will  be  to  many  of  great  bitterness; 
And  if  to  truth  I  am  a  timid  friend,  11^ 

I  fear  the  loss  of  living  among  those 

By  whom  these  will  be  called  the  olden  times.*' 
The  light  in  which  my  treasure,  which  I  there  121 

Had  found,  was  smiling,  first  began  to  flash, 

Like  to  a  golden  mirror  in  the  sun ; 
And  then  replied:  ''A  conscience  that  is  dark,  124 

Be  it  for  its  own  or  for  another's  shame, 

Will  feel,  indeed,  that  what  thou  say'st  is  harsh; 
But  none  the  less,  all  falsehood  laid  aside,  127 

Make  all  thy  vision  manifest,  and  then 

Let  there  be  scratching  where  the  itching  is; 
For  if  thy  voice  at  the  first  taste  shall  be 

A  molestation,  it  will  afterwards 

Digested  leave  a  vital  nourishment. 
This  cry  of  thine  shall  do  as  does  the  wind,  1** 

Which  beats  the  hardest  on  the  highest  peaks ; 

And  this  shall  be  of  honor  no  slight  proof. 
Hence  have  been  shown  to  thee  within  these  wheels,  1^6 

Upon  the  Mount,  and  in  the  dolorous  vale, 

Only  the  souls  which  unto  fame  are  known; 
Because  the  mind  of  him  who  hears  rests  not,  1** 

Nor  by  example  that  should  have  its  root 

Unknown  and  hidden  is  his  faith  confirmed, 
Nor  yet  by  other  unapparent  proof."  1*2 


130 


PARADISO,  XVIII  367 


CANTO  XVIII 

Now  was  enjoying  only  its  own  word 

That  blessed  mirror,  and  I,  tempering 

The  bitter  with  the  sweet,  was  tasting  mine. 
When  spoke  that  Lady,  who  was  leading  me  ^ 

To  God :  * '  Change  thou  thy  thought,  think  that  I  am 

Near  Him  who  lifts  the  load  of  every  wrong. ' ' 
I  turned  me  at  the  loving  sound  of  her,  7 

My  comfort,  and  what  love  I  then  beheld 

Within  the  holy  eyes  I  leave  untold; 
Not  merely  that  I  trust  not  words  of  mine,  10 

But  memory  can  not  return  so  far 

Above  itself,  unless  another  guide. 
This  can  I  of  that  moment  still  recount  13 

That  my  affection  as  I  gazed  on  her 

From  every  other  longing  was  set  free, 
While  the  Eternal  Pleasure,  whose  ray  fell  16 

Direct  on  Beatrice,  from  her  fair  face 

With  the  second  aspect  was  contenting  me. 
The  light  of  her  smile  overwhelming  me,  19 

She  said  to  me :  ' '  Turn  thou  and  listen,  for 

Not  only  in  my  eyes  is  Paradise.'* 
As  here  the  affection  in  the  countenance  22 

Is  sometimes  seen,  if  it  be  great  enough 

For  the  whole  soul  to  be  possessed  by  it, 
So  in  the  holy  splendor's  flaming  light,  25 

To  which  I  turned,  I  recognized  the  will 

In  it  to  discourse  with  me  still  somewhat. 
It  said,  beginning :  "  In  this  resting-place,  28 

Fifth  of  the  tree  which  from  its  top  has  life. 

That  bears  fruit  ever  and  sheds  never  leaf. 
Are  blessed  spirits  which  below,  before  31 


368  THE  DIVINE  COMEDY 

They  came  to  heaven,  were  of  great  renown 

So  that  with  them  would  any  muse  be  rich. 
Therefore  gaze  thou  upon  the  arms  of  the  cross ;  34 

The  one  whom  I  name  there  will  do  the  act 

That  in  a  cloud  is  done  by  its  swift  fire. ' ' 
At  Joshua's  name  I  saw  along  the  cross  ^^ 

A  light  drawn  out  even  as  it  was  named, 

Nor  did  I  note  the  word  before  the  deed. 
And  at  the  lofty  Maccabeus'  name  ^ 

1  saw  another  moving  like  a  wheel, 

And  of  that  top  the  whip  was  happiness. 
For  Charlemagne  and  Roland  thus  my  gaze  ^ 

Intently  followed  two  of  them,  as  one 

Follows  his  flying  falcon  with  his  eye. 
And  afterward  my  gaze  was  drawn  along  ^ 

That  cross  by  William  and  by  Renouard, 

By  the  Duke  Godfrey  and  Robert  Guiscard. 
Moving  and  mingling  with  the  other  lights  ** 

The  soul  that  had  addressed  me  showed  me  then 

What  artistry  was  his  in  heaven's  choir. 
I  turned  me  round  to  my  right  side,  that  I  ^2 

Might  see  in  Beatrice  what  I  should  do, 

Either  by  act  betokened  or  by  words ; 
And  saw  her  eyes  of  such  clear  brilliancy, 

So  full  of  gladness  that  her  countenance 

Excelled  her  other  and  her  latest  wont. 
And  even  as  through  feeling  more  delight  ^8 

In  his  good  works  a  man  from  day  to  day 

Of  his  advance  in  virtue  grows  aware, 
So  I,  seeing  that  Marvel  more  adorned,  •I 

Became  aware  that  my  revolving  course 

Along  with  heaven  had  increased  its  arc. 
And  like  the  change  in  little  space  of  time  ^ 

In  a  fair  lady,  when  her  face  becomes 


55 


PARADISO,  XVIII  369 

Relieved  from  burden  of  a  sense  of  shame: 
Such  was  there  in  my  eyes,  when  I  had  turned,  67 

In  the  pure  whiteness  of  the  temperate  star, 

The  sixth,  that  had  received  me  to  itself. 
I  saw  within  that  torch  of  Jupiter  70 

The  sparkling  of  the  love  existing  there 

Make  to  my  eyes  the  tokens  of  our  speech. 
And  even  as  birds  when  risen  from  the  shore,  73 

As  if  with  one  rejoicing  for  their  food, 

Make  of  themselves  a  troop,  now  round,  now  long. 
So  holy  creatures  there  within  the  lights  76 

Went  singing  as  they  flew,  and  made  themselves 

Now  D,  now  I,  now  L  in  their  own  groups. 
First,  they  moved  singing  to  their  melody;  79 

Becoming  then  one  of  these  characters, 

A  little  while  they  waited  silently. 
0  Pegasean  goddess,  who  dost  make  82 

Men 's  wits  renowned  and  renderest  them  long-lived, 

And  they  with  thee  the  cities  and  the  realms. 
Light  me  thyself,  so  that  I  may  set  forth  85 

Their  figures,  as  I  have  conceived  of  them ; 

In  these  brief  verses  let  thy  power  appear ! 
For  they  displayed  themselves  in  five  times  seven  88 

Vowels  and  consonants,  and  I  observed 

The  parts  so  as  they  seemed  to  me  expressed ; 
Diligite  jusiitiam  the  first  91 

Of  all  the  picture  were,  as  verb  and  noun ; 

Qui  judicatis  terram  were  the  last. 
Then  in  the  M  of  the  fifth  word  they  stayed  94 

In  their  due  order,  so  that  Jupiter 

Seemed  to  be  silver  there  inlaid  with  gold. 
And  I  saw  other  lights  descend  upon  97 

The  top  of  the  M  and  there  grow  still  and  sing, 

I  think,  the  Good  which  moves  them  to  Itself. 


370  THE  DIVINE  COMEDY 

As  on  the  striking  of  the  burning  logs  100 

There  rise  innumerable  sparks,  wherefrom 

The  foolish  use  to  draw  an  augury, 
So  there  seemed  then  more  than  a  thousand  lights  103 

To  rise  thence  and  to  mount,  some  much,  some  little, 

As  was  allotted  by  the  enkindling  sun; 
And  when  each  one  had  quieted  itself  106 

In  its  own  place,  an  eagle 's  head  and  neck 

I  saw  was  figured  by  that  inlaid  fire. 
He  who  paints  there  has  no  one  guiding  Him,  109 

He  guides ;  and  from  Him  comes  that  to  the  mind 

Which  is  the  forming  power  for  the  nests; 
The  other  blessedness,  which  seemd  at  first  112 

Content  to  be  enlilied  on  the  M, 

With  little  motion  followed  out  the  print. 
What  gems,  and  in  what  number,  0  sweet  star,  115 

Made  plain  to  me  that  our  own  justice  is 

Effected  by  that  heaven  thou  dost  ingem ! 
Wherefore  I  pray  the  Mind  in  which  begin  118 

Thy  motion  and  thy  power,  that  it  view  whence 

Issues  the  smoke  that  vitiates  thy  ray ; 
So  that  it  now  again  be  moved  to  wrath,  121 

That  in  that  temple  men  should  buy  and  sell. 

Whose  walls  were  built  of  blood  and  martyrdoms. 
0  soldiery  of  heaven,  on  whom  I  gaze,  12* 

Pray  ye  for  those  who  are  upon  the  earth, 

Following  the  bad  example,  all  astray ! 
The  use  was  once  to  war  with  swords ;  but  now  127 

They  take  away,  now  here,  now  there,  the  bread 

The  pitying  Father  would  lock  up  from  none ; 
But  thou,  who  writest  but  to  cancel  it,  130 

Think  how  are  still  alive  Peter  and  Paul, 

Who  died  for  the  vineyard  that  thou  layest  waste. 
Well  canst  thou  say :  *  *  I  have  my  heart  so  set  1^ 


PARADISO,  XIX  371 


On  him  who  willed  to  live  alone,  and  who 
For  dancing  was  brought  forth  to  martyrdom, 
That  I  know  not  the  fisherman  nor  Paul. ' '  136 


CANTO  XIX 

The  beautiful  image  which  the  entwined  souls 

Were  making,  in  their  sweet  fruition  glad, 

Appeared  before  me  with  its  wings  outstretched. 
Each  one  appeared  a  ruby,  which  as  it  were  * 

Burned  with  a  ray  of  sunlight,  so  on  fire 

That  it  reflected  it  into  my  eyes. 
And  that  which  it  befits  me  now  to  trace  7 

Voice  ne'er  reported  and  ink  never  wrote, 

Nor  ever  was  it  by  the  fancy  grasped; 
For  I  beheld  and  also  heard  the  beak  10 

To  speak,  and  its  voice  utter  ' '  I "  and  * '  My, ' ' 

When  in  conception  it  was  *'We"  and  ''Our.*' 
* '  For  being  just  and  tender, ' '  it  began,  13 

''Am  I  exalted  to  the  glory  here 

Which  suffers  not  to  be  excelled  by  wish ; 
And  on  the  earth  the  memory  of  me  16 

Have  I  left  such  that  there  the  evil  folk 

Commend  it,  but  the  story  follow  not." 
As  one  heat  only  makes  itself  be  felt  1^ 

From  many  coals,  so  came  from  many  loves 

But  one  sound  from  that  image  issuing; 
At  which  I  said  then :  ' '  0  perpetual  flowers  22 

Of  the  eternal  gladness,  who  to  me 

Make  all  your  odors  sweet  seem  but  as  one. 
Breathing,  give  me  release  from  that  great  fast  25 

Which  for  so  long  has  kept  me  hungering. 

For  I  have  found  no  food  for  it  on  earth. 


372  THE  DIVINE  COMEDY 

Truly  I  know  that  if  God's  justice  makes  28 

Its  mirror  of  another  realm  in  heaven, 

By  yours  it  is  apprehended  with  no  veil. 
Ye  know  with  what  attention  I  prepare  ^^ 

To  listen,  and  ye  know  what  doubt  it  is 

That  has  become  so  old  a  fast  to  me. " 
Such  as  the  falcon  issuing  from  the  hood,  '* 

Which  moves  his  head  about  and  claps  his  wings, 

Meaning  to  show  himself  made  beautiful, 
Saw  I  that  figure,  woven  of  the  praise  3^ 

Of  Grace  Divine,  becoming  with  the  songs 

Such  as  they  know  who  there  on  high  rejoice. 
Then  it  began :  * '  That  One,  whose  compass  swept  ^^ 

The  world's  remotest  bound,  and  marked  within 

So  much  obscure  and  so  much  manifest. 
Could  not  have  made  such  imprint  of  His  worth  ^3 

On  all  the  universe,  but  that  His  word 

Should  have  remained  in  infinite  excess. 
And  this  makes  plain  that  the  first  haughty  one,  *® 

Who  was  the  height  of  all  created  things. 

Fell,  as  he  would  not  wait  for  light,  unripe ; 
Thence  it  appears  that  lesser  natures  all  *• 

Are  scant  receptacles  for  boundless  Good, 

Itself  alone  the  measure  of  Itself. 
Our  vision  then,  which  of  necessity  52 

Is  one  ray  of  the  Mind  with  which  all  things 

Are  full  to  the  uttermost,  can  not  possess 
Of  its  own  nature  such  a  power  but  that  55 

It  should  discern  its  Origin  far  on 

Beyond  that  which  appears  unto  itself. 
Therefore  the  sight,  which  your  world  has  received  58 

Into  eternal  justice,  penetrates 

Within  as  does  the  eye  into  the  sea; 
Which,  though  it  see  the  bottom  from  the  shore,  5^ 


PARADISO,  XIX  373 

At  sea  beholds  it  not,  which  none  the  less 

Is  there,  but  hidden  from  him,  being  deep. 
Light  is  not,  save  it  come  from  the  serene  ^4 

That  never  clouds  itself ;  nay,  is  darkness  rather, 

Or  shadow  of  the  flesh,  or  poison  thence. 
Open  enough  to  thee  is  now  the  place,  ^7 

Which  hid  the  living  justice,  and  whereof 

Thou  mad  'st  so  frequent  question ;  for  thou  saidst : 
^A  man  is  born  upon  the  Indus'  bank  70 

Where  there  is  no  one  who  of  Christ  may  tell, 

Nor  who  may  read  nor  who  may  write ;  and  all 
He  wills  to  do  and  all  his  deeds  are  good,  73 

As  far  as  human  reasoning  perceives, 

Without  a  sin  in  living  or  in  speech; 
And  unbaptized  and  without  faith  he  dies;  76 

Where  is  this  justice  that  condemns  the  man  ? 

Where  is  his  fault,  if  he  does  not  believe  ? ' 
Now  who  art  thou,  that  wouldst  sit  on  the  bench  79 

To  judge  of  aught  a  thousand  miles  away 

With  petty  vision  of  a  span  in  reach? 
Surely  for  him  who  subtly  deals  with  me,  82 

If  there  were  not  the  Scripture  over  you, 

There  would  be  room  for  doubting  marvelously. 
0  earthly  animals !    0  ye  gross  minds !  85 

The  Primal  Will,  which  of  Itself  is  good, 

Moved  never  from  Itself,  the  Supreme  Good. 
The  just  is  what  is  consonant  with  It ;  88 

No  good  created  draws  It  to  itself. 

But  It  by  radiance  is  its  very  cause." 
Like  as  the  stork,  when  she  has  fed  her  young,  91 

Goes  circling  in  her  flight  above  the  nest 

While  that  one  who  is  fed  looks  up  at  her. 
Even  such  became, — and  so  raised  I  my  eyes, —  ^^ 

The  blessed  image,  which  moved  now  its  wings 


374  THE  DIVINE  COMEDY 

With  impulse  by  so  many  counsels  made. 
Wheeling  it  sang,  and  said :  "  As  are  my  notes  97 

To  thee,  who  dost  not  understand  them,  such 

The  eternal  judgment  is  to  mortal  man." 
After  the  Holy  Spirit's  glowing  flames  100 

Had  quieted  themselves,  still  in  the  sign. 

Which  made  the  Romans  reverend  to  the  world, 
Thus  it  began  again :  ' '  Unto  this  realm  108 

No  one  has  risen  believing  not  in  Christ, 

Before  or  since  they  nailed  Him  to  the  cross. 
But  lo !  many  are  they  that  cry  Christ !  Christ !  106 

Who  at  the  Judgment  shall  be  much  less  near 

To  Him,  than  such  an  one  who  knows  not  Christ; 
Christians  like  those  the  Ethiop  shall  condemn,  109 

When  the  two  companies  shall  separate. 

The  one  forever  rich,  the  other  poor. 
What  shall  the  Persians  say  unto  your  kings  112 

When  they  shall  see  the  open  book  wherein 

All  their  dispraises  have  been  written  down? 
There  shall  be  seen  that  one  among  the  deeds  115 

Of  Albert,  which  shall  soon  make  move  the  pen, 

And  make  a  desert  of  the  realm  of  Prague. 
There  shall  be  seen  the  misery  which  he,  118 

Who  is  to  die  by  blow  of  a  wild  boar, 

Brings  on  the  Seine  by  coinage  falsified. 
There  shall  be  seen  the  pride  that  whets  the  thirst  121 

Which  maddens  Scot  and  Englishman  alike 

So  that  they  can  not  keep  within  their  bounds; 
Seen  the  luxurious  and  effeminate  life  124 

Of  him  of  Spain,  and  that  Bohemian's 

Who  ne'er  knew  valor,  nor  desired  to  know; 
Seen  how  the  crippled  of  Jerusalem  127 

Has  with  a  single  I  his  goodness  marked, 

Whereas  the  contrary  is  marked  with  M; 


PARADISO,  XX  375 


Seen  both  the  avarice  and  cowardice  130 

Of  him  who  guards  the  island  of  the  fire 

Whereon  Anchises  ended  his  long  life; 
And  to  make  clearly  known  his  pettiness,  1^3 

The  letters  of  his  writing  shall  be  small, 

And  make  a  note  of  much  in  little  space ; 
And  plain  to  all  appear  the  filthy  deeds  136 

His  uncle  and  his  brother  w^rought,  whose  stock 

So  famous  and  whose  crowns  they  bastardized; 
And  he  of  Portugal  shall  be  known  there,  139 

And  he  of  Norway,  and  of  Rascia  he. 

Who  to  his  hurt  looked  on  Venetian  coin. 
0  happy  Hungary,  if  she  endure  1*2 

No  longer  to  be  harmed !    Happy  Navarre, 

If  she  shall  arm  her  with  her  girding  hills ! 
And  all  should  know,  in  earnest  of  this  end,  1*5 

That  Nicosia  and  Famagosta  now 

Lament  and  wail  by  reason  of  their  beast 
Which  parts  not  from  the  others  at  his  side.  * '  1*8 

CANTO  XX 

When  that  one  who  illumines  all  the  world 

Is  from  our  hemisphere  descending,  so 

That  day  in  every  quarter  wastes  away. 
The  heaven,  enkindled  erst  by  him  alone,  * 

Makes  itself  suddenly  appear  again 

With  many  lights,  in  them  reflecting  one. 
And  this  act  of  the  heaven  came  to  me  ^ 

In  mind  when  now  the  ensign  of  the  world 

And  of  its  leaders  in  its  blessed  beak 
Ceased  utterance;  for  all  those  living  lights,  10 

Gleaming  more  brightly  far,  commenced  to  sing 

Songs  lapsing  from  my  memory  and  lost. 


376  THE  DIVINE  COMEDY 

Sweet  Love,  which  with  a  smile  dost  cloak  thyself,  ^3 

How  ardent  thou  appearedst  in  those  flutes 

Which  had  the  breath  of  holy  thoughts  alone! 
After  the  precious  and  resplendent  stones,  16 

With  which  1  saw  the  sixth  light  was  ingemmed, 

Had  brought  to  silence  their  angelic  chimes, 
I  seemed  to  hear  the  murmuring  of  a  stream,  U> 

That  falls  in  limpid  flow  from  rock  to  rock. 

Showing  the  fulness  of  its  lofty  source. 
As  at  the  cithern 's  neck  sound  takes  its  form,  22 

And  at  the  vent-hole  in  the  bagpipe's  reed 

The  wind  that  is  within  it,  even  so 
Delay  of  waiting  being  set  aside,  25 

That  sound  of  murmuring  arose  within 

The  eagle's  neck,  as  through  a  hollow  space. 
There  it  became  a  voice,  and  issued  thence  28 

From  out  its  beak  in  form  of  words,  such  as 

The  heart  awaited,  where  I  wrote  them  down. 
* '  The  part  in  me  which  sees  and  bears  the  sun  M 

In  mortal  eagles,"  it  began  to  me, 

"Must  now  be  looked  on  fixedly,  because 
Among  the  fires  of  which  I  make  my  form,  34 

Those  of  the  eye  which  sparkles  in  my  head 

Are  they  who  are  supreme  of  all  their  grades. 
He  in  the  middle  as  the  pupil  shines  87 

Who  was  the  singer  of  the  Holy  Spirit 

And  brought  the  ark  from  city  unto  city; 
Now  knows  he  of  the  merit  of  his  song,  40 

How  far  it  was  the  effect  of  his  design, 

By  the  rewarding,  which  is  like  to  it. 
Of  five  who  make  a  circle  as  my  brow,  4* 

The  one  who  is  the  nearest  to  my  beak 

Consoled  the  grieving  widow  for  her  son; 
Now  knows  he  at  how  dear  a  cost  it  is,  40 


PARADISO,  XX  377 

Not  following  Christ,  by  the  experience 

Of  this  sweet  life  and  of  its  opposite. 
And  he,  the  next  on  the  circumference  49 

Of  which  I  speak,  upon  the  upper  arc, 

By  a  true  penitence  delayed  his  death ; 
Now  knows  he  that  the  eternally  decreed  52 

Is  not  transmuted  when  a  worthy  prayer 

Makes  there  tomorrow 's  that  which  was  today 's. 
The  next  who  follows,  with  the  laws  and  me, —  55 

With  good  intention  that  bore  evil  fruit, — 

Made  himself  Greek  to  give  the  pastor  room; 
Now  knows  he  how  the  ill  from  his  good  deed  58 

Deduced,  is  not  injurious  to  him. 

Although  thereby  the  world  should  be  destroyed. 
And  he,  whom  on  the  sloping  arc  thou  seest,  61 

Was  William,  whom  that  land  deplores,  which  sheds 

Its  tears  for  Charles  and  Frederick  alive ; 
Now  knows  he  how  the  ardent  love  of  heaven  64 

Is  given  the  righteous  king,  and  to  the  view 

In  his  effulgency  still  makes  it  seen. 
Who  would  believe  down  in  the  erring  world  67 

The  Trojan  Rhipeus  to  be  here,  the  fifth 

Upon  the  circle  of  these  holy  lights? 
Now  knows  he  much  of  what  the  world  has  not  ^0 

The  power  to  behold  of  grace  divine. 

Although  his  sight  may  not  discern  the  depth.'' 
Like  to  the  lark  that  goes  her  way  in  air,  73 

Singing  at  first,  then  silences  her  voice 

Content,  with  her  last  sweetness  satisfied, 
Such  seemed  to  me  the  image  of  the  imprint  ^6 

Of  the  Eternal  Pleasure,  at  the  will 

Of  Whom  each  thing  becomes  that  which  it  is. 
And  although  there  I  was  unto  my.  doubt  ^^ 

Like  glass  unto  the  color  which  it  clothes, 


378  THE  DIVINE  COMEDY 

It  could  not,  silent,  bear  to  bide  its  time,  [forth 

But  from  my  mouth : ' '  What  things  are  these  ? ' '  urged     82 

By  force  of  its  own  weight ;  and  thereupon 

I  saw  great  festal  joy  of  flashing  light. 
Then  all  at  once  with  eye  enkindled  more  85 

The  blessed  ensign  made  reply  to  me. 

Not  to  keep  me  in  wondering  suspense : 
*  *  I  see  that  these  things  are  believed  by  thee,  88 

Because  I  tell  them,  but  thou  seest  not  how; 

And  so  are  hidden,  though  they  are  believed. 
Thou  dost  as  one  who  apprehends  indeed  W 

A  thing  by  name ;  whereas  its  quiddity 

He  can  not  see,  if  some  one  show  it  not. 
Regnum  coelorum  suffers  violence  W 

From  ardent  love,  and  from  a  lively  hope 

Which  vanquishes  the  will  of  God ;  but  not 
In  such  wise  as  man  overmasters  man,  97 

But  vanquishes,  for  vanquished  it  would  be. 

And  vanquished,  vanquishes  benignantly. 
The  first  life  of  the  eyebrow  and  the  fifth  100 

Cause  thee  to  see  and  marvel  that  with  them 

The  region  of  the  angels  is  adorned. 
They  came  not  from  their  bodies,  as  thou  deem  'st,  108 

Gentiles,  but  Christians,  trusting  firmly  in 

The  Feet  that  suffered,  or  should  suffer  yet. 
The  one  came  back  unto  his  bones  from  Hell,  106 

Where  there  is  ne  'er  returning  to  good  will, — 

And  this  was  a  reward  of  lively  hope ; 
Of  lively  hope  that  lent  its  power  to  prayers  109 

Made  unto  God,  that  he  might  be  raised  up, 

So  that  his  will  might  have  the  power  to  move. 
The  glorious  soul,  of  which  these  words  are  spoken,  112 

Returning  to  the  flesh  briefly  sojourned, 

And  put  its  faith  in  Him  with  power  to  help ; 


PARADISO,  XX  379 

And  in  believing  burned  with  so  great  flame  115 

Of  a  true  love,  that  at  the  second  death 

It  fitly  came  to  this  festivity. 
The  other,  by  the  grace  which  from  a  spring  US 

Wells  up,  so  deep  that  no  created  eye 

Has  ever  reached  so  far  as  its  first  wave, 
Set  all  his  love  below  on  righteousness ;  121 

So  God,  from  grace  to  grace,  opened  his  eyes 

On  our  redemption  that  was  yet  to  be; 
Wherefore  believing  in  it,  from  that  time  124 

He  bore  the  stench  of  paganism  no  more. 

Rebuking  the  perverse  because  of  it. 
To  him  for  baptism  were  those  Ladies  three  127 

Whom  thou  saw  'st  near  the  wheel  upon  the  right, 

Before  baptizing  a  full  thousand  years. 
Oh,  how  remote,  predestination,  is  130 

Thy  root  from  sight  of  those  who  do  not  see 

The  Primal  Cause  in  its  entirety ! 
And  do  ye,  mortals,  keep  yourselves  restrained  1^3 

In  passing  judgment;  for  to  us  who  look 

On  God,  are  all  the  chosen  not  yet  known ; 
And  sweet  to  us  is  this  deficiency,  136 

For  our  good  is  perfected  in  this  good. 

That  what  is  willed  of  God  we  also  will. '  * 
In  such  wise  by  that  image  so  divine, —  139 

That  my  short  sight  might  be  made  clear  for  me, — 

Given  to  me  was  a  sweet  medicine. 
As  a  good  lutanist  accompanies  1^2 

One  singing  well  with  quivering  of  the  strings, 

Whereby  the  song  acquires  more  pleasantness ; 
So,  while  it  spoke,  as  I  recall  to  mind,  1*5 

Did  I  behold  the  blessed  lights  of  both. 

Just  as  the  winking  of  the  eyes  agrees, 
With  flamelets  set  in  motion  to  the  words.  1^8 


380  THE  DIVINE  COMEDY 


CANTO  XXI 

Already  on  my  Lady's  countenance 

My  eyes  were  fixed  again,  with  them  my  mind 
That  from  all  other  objects  had  withdrawn; 

And  she  was  smiling  not,  but  thus  to  me  * 

Began :  ' '  If  I  should  smile,  thou  wouldst  become 
What  Semele  became,  to  ashes  turned ; 

Because  my  beauty  which  along  the  stairs  ^ 

Of  the  eternal  palace  kindles  more, 
As  thou  hast  seen,  the  higher  it  ascends. 

Glows,  if  untempered,  so  resplendently,  10 

Before  its  brilliancy  thy  mortal  power 
Would  be  as  foliage  that  the  thunder  blasts. 

To  the  seventh  splendor  are  we  lifted  up,  18 

That  underneath  the  Lion's  burning  breast 
Now  radiates  downward,  mingled  with  his  strength. 

Fix  thou  thy  mind  on  following  thine  eyes,  1^ 

And  let  them  mirrora  for  the  figure  be 
Which  in  this  mirror  to  thee  shall  appear." 

He  who  should  know  the  feasting  of  my  eyes,  !• 

What  sort  it  was,  upon  that  blessed  sight, 
When  I  transferred  me  to  another  care. 

Would  know  the  pleasure  that  I  felt  to  yield  22 

Obedience  to  my  celestial  guide, 
Were  he  to  counterpoise  this  side  with  that. 

Within  the  crystal  circling  round  the  world,  ^ 

Bearing  the  name  of  its  illustrious  leader, 
Beneath  whose  sway  all  wickedness  lay  dead. 

Colored  like  gold  on  which  the  sunlight  falls,  28 

I  saw  a  ladder  stretching  up  so  far 
That  with  my  eyes  I  could  not  follow  it. 

I  saw,  besides,  descending  by  its  steps  31 


PARADISO,  XXI  381 

So  many  splendors  that  I  thought  all  light 

That  shines  in  heaven  was  poured  down  from  it. 
And  as,  their  natural  custom  following,  34 

The  daws  together  at  the  break  of  day 

To  warm  their  chilly  feathers  move  about ; 
Then  some  will  go  away  without  return,  37 

Others  come  back  to  whence  they  started  forth, 

And  some  continue  in  their  wheeling  flight : 
Such  seemed  to  me  to  be  the  manner  here,  40 

As  it  collected,  of  that  sparkling  light 

As  soon  as  it  had  reached  a  certain  step ; 
And  that  one  which  kept  nearest  us,  became  43 

So  bright  that  I  was  saying  in  my  thought : 

*  *  I  see  indeed  the  signal  of  thy  love ; 
But  she,  on  whom  I  wait  to  learn  the  how  46 

And  when  of  speech  and  silence,  moves  not ;  so, 

Against  desire,  it  is  well  that  I  ask  not. ' ' 
But  as  she  in  the  sight  of  Him,  who  sees  49 

All  things,  had  seen  the  silence  that  I  kept, 

She  said  to  me :  "  Let  loose  thy  warm  desire  ! ' ' 
And  I  began :  ' '  It  is  not  my  desert  52 

That  makes  me  worthy  of  thine  answering, 

But  for  her  sake,  who  granted  that  I  ask, 
O  blessed  life,  who  dost  abide  concealed  55 

Within  thy  joy,  do  thou  make  known  to  me 

The  cause  which  has  brought  thee  so  near  my  side ; 
And  tell  me  wherefore  silent  in  this  wheel  58 

Is  the  sweet  symphony  of  Paradise, 

Which  so  devoutly  sounds  through  those  below. ' ' 
' '  Thou  hast  thy  hearing  mortal,  as  thy  sight, ' '  61 

It  answered  me ;  "  one  is  the  cause  that  here 

There  is  no  song  and  Beatrice  smiles  not. 
The  holy  ladder's  steps  have  I  come  down  64 

So  far  that  I  might  solely  give  thee  joy 


382  THE  DIVINE  COMEDY 

Of  speech  and  of  the  light  that  mantles  me ; 
Nor  was  I  swifter  through  a  greater  love,  ^7 

For  up  there  love  as  great  and  greater  bums, 

Even  as  the  flaming  manifests  to  thee ; 
But  the  deep  charity,  which  makes  us  prompt  70 

To  serve  the  counsel  governing  the  world. 

As  thou  observest,  makes  allotment  here. ' ' 
' '  Clearly  I  see,  0  Sacred  Lamp, ' '  said  I,  73 

*'How  a  free  love  suffices  in  this  court 

For  following  the  eternal  Providence ; 
But  this  it  is  seems  hard  for  me  to  grasp,  76 

Why  thou  among  thy  consorts  wast  alone 

Predestined  to  the  office  that  thou  hast." 
I  had  not  come  to  uttering  my  last  word  79 

Before  its  middle  part  the  light  had  made 

A  centre,  whirling  with  a  mill-stone 's  speed. 
And  then  the  love  within  it  made  reply:  82 

' '  A  light  divine  is  falling  upon  me 

And  pierces  this,  where  I  am  at  the  heart ; 
The  power  of  which,  combining  with  my  sight,  ^5 

Lifts  me  above  myself  so  far,  I  see 

The  Supreme  Essence,  from  which  it  is  drawn. 
Thence  comes  the  joy  wherewith  I  flame ;  because  S8 

According  to  my  sight,  as  that  is  clear, 

I  show  an  equal  clearness  in  my  flame. 
But  even  that  most  enlightened  soul  in  heaven,  ^^ 

The  Seraph  with  his  eye  most  fixed  on  God, 

Would  fail  of  satisfying  thy  demand; 
For  that  which  thou  dost  a.sk  in  the  abyss  ^4 

Of  the  Eternal  Statute  lies  so  deep, 

It  is  cut  off  from  all  created  sight. 
W^hen  thou  returnest  to  the  mortal  world,  ^7 

Carry  this  back,  so  that  it  may  no  more 

Presume  to  move  its  feet  toward  such  a  goal. 


PARADISO,  XXI  383 

On  earth  the  mind  is  smoky  which  shines  here ;  100 

Consider,  then,  how  can  it  do  below 

What  it  can  not,  though  heaven  take  it  up.'' 
Such  were  the  bounds  prescribed  me  by  its  words,  103 

That  I  ceased  questioning,  and  drew  me  back 

To  ask  it,  humbly  minded,  who  it  was. 
*  *  Between  the  two  Italian  shores  rise  rocks, —  106 

And  not  far  distant  from  thy  native  land, — 

So  high,  the  thunders  sound  far  lower  down. 
And  form  a  ridge  called  Catria,  on  whose  slope  109 

There  is  a  consecrated  hermitage 

That  was  for  worship  only  set  apart. ' ' 
Thus  it  began  again  the  third  discourse ;  112 

And  then  it  said  as  it  continued :  ' '  There 

I  gave  myself  so  firmly  to  serve  God, 
That  merely  with  the  food  of  olive  juice  115 

I  easily  endured  the  heat  and  cold. 

Contented  in  my  contemplative  thoughts. 
Of  old  that  cloister  rendered  to  these  heavens  118 

Abundantly,  but  it  is  empty  now, 

As  presently  must  be  perforce  revealed. 
In  that  place  was  I  Peter  Damian ;  121 

Our  Lady's  house  by  the  Adriatic  shore 

Knew  me  as  Peter,  named  the  Sinner,  too. 
But  little  mortal  life  was  left  to  me  124 

When  I  was  called  and  dragged  toward  the  hat, 

Which  ever  is  transferred  from  bad  to  worse. 
Lean  and  unshod  came  Cephas,  as  he  came,  127 

That  mighty  vessel  of  the  Holy  Spirit, 

Taking  the  food  of  whatsoever  inn. 
Now  will  they  have  one  propping  on  each  side,  130 

The  modern  pastors,  and  one  leading  them. 

So  heavy  now,  and  one  hold  up  their  trains. 
Their  mantles  cover  up  their  palfreys  so  133 


384  THE  DIVINE  COMEDY 

That  two  beasts  move  under  a  single  hide. 
0  Patience,  that  endurest,  oh,  so  much ! ' ' 

At  this  voice  I  beheld  more  flamelets  come,  136 

From  step  to  step  descending,  and  whirl  round, 
And  every  whirl  made  them  more  beautiful. 

About  this  one  they  came  and  there  remained,  139 

And  cried  with  such  deep  sound,  none  here  could  be 
Compared  with  it ;  nor  could  I  understand  it, 

The  thundering  had  overcome  me  so.  1^ 


CANTO  XXII 

Oppressed  with  my  amazement,  to  my  guide 
I  turned  me,  as  a  child  runs  always  back 
Thither  where  he  has  greatest  confidence ; 

And  she  was  like  a  mother  who  gives  help  * 

At  once  to  her  pale,  breathless  son  with  voice 
That  has  been  wont  to  comfort  him,  and  said 

To  me:  "Knowest  thou  not  thou  art  in  heaven?  7 

That  heaven  is  all  holy  knowest  thou  not. 
And  that  the  deeds  done  here  come  from  good  zeal  T 

What  change  in  thee  the  singing  would  have  wrought,        ^0 
And  I  by  smiling,  thou  canst  now  conceive. 
Since  by  their  cry  thou  wast  so  deeply  moved ; 

In  which,  if  thou  hadst  understood  their  prayers,  ^3 

Already  were  the  vengeance  known  to  thee, 
Which  thou  shalt  see  before  thou  come  to  die. 

The  sword  of  here  on  high  cuts  not  in  haste,  !• 

Nor  tardily,  save  as  it  seems  to  him 
Awaiting  it  in  his  desire  or  fear. 

But  turn  thou  now  about  toward  the  others,  ^^ 

For  most  illustrious  spirits  shalt  thou  see. 
If,  as  I  say,  thou  but  turn  back  thy  gaze.'* 


PARADISO,  XXII  385 

With  eyes  directed  as  pleased  her,  I  saw  22 

A  hundred  little  spheres  together  gain 

A  greater  beauty  by  their  mutual  rays. 
I  stood  as  one  repressing  in  himself  25 

The  point  of  his  desire,  not  venturing 

To  ask,  so  greatly  does  he  fear  excess. 
And  when  the  largest  and  most  luminous  28 

Moved  itself  forward  from  among  those  pearls 

To  satisfy  my  wish  about  itself, 
I  heard  within  it : ' '  If  thou  couldst  behold,  31 

As  I  do  now,  the  charity  which  burns 

Among  us  here,  thy  thoughts  would  be  expressed ; 
But  lest  thou,  waiting,  shouldst  be  slow  to  reach  34 

The  lofty  end,  even  unto  thy  thought. 

Of  which  thou  art  so  cautious,  I  reply. 
That  mountain  on  whose  slope  Cassino  lies,  37 

Was  formerly  frequented  on  its  top 

By  a  deceived  and  evil-minded  folk. 
And  I  am  he,  who  first  bore  to  that  height  40 

The  name  of  Him,  who  brought  down  to  the  earth 

The  truth  which  so  sublimely  raises  us ; 
And  grace  with  such  abundance  shone  on  me,  43 

That  the  surrounding  towns  I  drew  away 

From  impious  worship  that  seduced  the  world. 
These  other  fires  were  all  contemplatives,  46 

Enkindled  by  that  heat  which  brings  to  birth 

The  flowers  and  the  fruits  of  sanctity. 
Macarius  and  Romualdus  both  are  here,  49 

Here  are  my  brothers,  who  confined  their  steps 

Within  the  cloisters  and  kept  sound  their  hearts. ' ' 
And  I  to  him :  ' '  The  affection,  which  thou  showest  ^2 

Speaking  with  me,  and  the  benevolence 

I  seem  to  see  and  note  in  all  your  fires, 
Within  me  so  expands  my  confidence  ^5 


386  THE  DIVINE  COMEDY 

As  sunlight  does  the  rose  when,  opening, 

She  has  become  all  she  has  power  to  be ; 
Wherefore  I  pray  thee,  let  me,  Father,  know  58 

If  I  may  be  recipient  of  such  grace 

That  I  may  see  thee  with  a  form  unveiled. ' ' 
Whereon  he  said :  *  *  Brother,  thy  high  desire  ^^ 

Shall  be  fulfilled  in  that  last  sphere  on  high. 

Where  are  fulfilled  all  others  and  my  own ; 
There  perfect  and  mature,  and  lacking  naught  ^ 

Is  all  desiring ;  in  that  sphere  alone 

Is  every  part  there  where  it  always  was. 
For  it  is  not  in  space  and  has  not  poles ;  ^7 

Our  ladder  reaches  even  up  to  it, 

And  hence  thus  from  thy  vision  steals  away. 
Even  so  high  Jacob,  the  patriarch,  70 

Beheld  it  stretching  to  its  topmost  part 

When  angels  seemed  to  him  to  load  it  so. 
But  there  is  now  no  one  that  lifts  his  feet  ^3 

From  earth  that  he  may  mount  it,  and  my  rule 

Remains  below  to  spoil  the  folios. 
The  walls  that  used  to  be  an  abbey,  now 

Are  turned  to  dens,  and  the  monastic  robes 

Become  as  sacks  replete  with  wretched  flour. 
But  heavy  usury  is  levied  not 

So  much  against  God's  pleasure  as  that  fruit 

Which  works  such  madness  in  the  monkish  heart. 
For  whatsoever  by  the  Church  is  kept,  82 

Is  wholly  theirs  who  ask  it  in  God's  name, 

And  not  for  kinsmen,  nor  for  others  worse. 
The  flesh  of  mortals  has  a  softness  such  85 

That  good  beginning  lasts  not  there  below 

From  springing  of  the  oak  till  acorns  form. 
Peter  began  with  gold  and  silver  none,  ^ 

And  I  myself  with  fasting  and  with  prayers, 


76 


79 


PARADISO,  XXII  387 

And  Francis  humbly  his  society. 
And  if  thou  seest  how  each  of  these  commenced,  ^1 

Then  seest  further  whither  it  has  strayed, 

Thou  wilt  observe  that  white  is  turned  to  black. 
Truly  would  be  the  Jordan  driven  back,  94 

And  the  sea  fleeing  when  God  willed  it  so, 

More  wonderful  to  view  than  succor  here." 
Thus  spoke  he  to  me,  and  then  drew  him  back  57 

Unto  his  company,  and  that  closed  up ; 

Then  all  together  like  a  whirlwind  rose. 
And  the  sweet  Lady  merely  with  a  sign  100 

Impelled  me  up  that  ladder  in  their  train. 

My  nature  by  her  power  overcome. 
But  here  below  where  men  mount  and  descend  103 

By  natural  law,  was  motion  ne  'er  so  swift 

That  it  could  be  compared  unto  my  wing. 
So  may  I,  reader,  yet  return  to  those  106 

Devoutly  triumphing,  for  sake  of  which 

I  often  weep  for  sin  and  beat  my  breast. 
Thou  hadst  not  moved  thy  finger  back  and  forth  109 

Through  flame  so  quickly  as  I  saw  the  sign 

That  follows  Taurus,  and  had  entered  it. 
0  glorious  stars,  0  light  impregnated  112 

Of  virtue  great,  whence  I  acknowledge  came 

My  genius  wholly,  whatsoe'er  it  is. 
With  you  was  rising  and  would  hide  with  you  115 

He  who  is  father  of  each  mortal  life. 

When  first  I  felt  the  air  of  Tuscany ; 
And  then,  when  grace  was  given  me  to  go  118 

Within  the  lofty  wheel  that  whirls  you  round, 

Your  region  of  it  was  allotted  me. 
To  you  devoutly  now  breathes  her  desire  121 

My  soul  for  acquisition  of  the  power 

For  that  hard  pass  which  draws  her  to  itself. 


388  THE  DIVINE  COMEDY 

"Thou  art  to  the  Ultimate  Salvation  risen  124 

So  near, ' '  thus  Beatrice  began,  * '  that  thou 
Shouldst  have  thine  eyes  both  clarified  and  keen. 

And  therefore,  ere  thou  enter  farther  in,  "^27 

Look  backward,  down,  and  see  how  great  a  world 
I  have  already  put  beneath  thy  feet; 

So  that  thy  heart  in  fulness  of  its  joy  ^30 

Present  itself  to  the  triumphant  throng, 
Through  this  round  ether  coming  in  its  bliss. ' ' 

Backward  I  turned  my  sight  through  each  and  all  ^33 

The  seven  spheres,  and  I  beheld  this  globe 
Such  that  I  smiled  at  its  appearance  mean ; 

And  I  approve  that  counsel  as  the  best  136 

Which  holds  it  least  in  worth ;  righteous  indeed 
May  he  be  called  who  thinks  of  other  things. 

I  saw  Latona's  daughter  bathed  in  light  139 

Without  the  shadow  that  had  been  the  cause 
Why  once  I  deemed  her  to  be  rare  and  dense. 

The  aspect  of  thy  son,  0  Hyperion,  142 

Here  I  endured,  and  moving  on  their  round 
Saw  Maia  and  Dione  near  to  him. 

From  there  appeared  to  me  the  tempering  power  1*5 

Of  Jove  between  his  father  and  his  son ; 
And  there  was  clear  the  varying  of  their  place. 

And  all  the  seven  showed  themselves  to  me, —  1^8 

How  great  they  are  and  how  exceeding  swift, 
And  how  far  separated  their  abodes. 

To  me,  revolving  with  the  eternal  Twins,  151 

The  little  threshing-floor,  which  renders  us 
So  fierce,  lay  all  in  view  from  hills  to  shores. 

To  her  eyes  beautiful  then  turned  I  mine.  154 


PARADISO,  XXIII  389 


CANTO  XXIII 

As  the  bird  rests  among  the  branches  loved 
Upon  the  nest  of  her  sweet  little  ones 
Throughout  the  night  that  hides  all  things  from  us, 

And  then,  that  she  may  see  their  longed-for  looks,  ^ 

And  find  the  food  to  still  their  hungering, 
In  which  the  heavy  tasks  are  her  delight, 

Forestalls  the  time  upon  the  open  twig,  7 

And  ardent  with  desire  awaits  the  sun. 
Fixedly  watching  for  the  birth  of  dawn : 

So  was  my  Lady  standing  now  erect,  10 

Attentive,  and  toward  that  region  turned 
'Neath  which  the  sun  displays  a  lessened  haste, 

So  that,  beholding  her  in  this  suspense  ^3 

And  longing,  I  became  as  one  whose  wish 
Seeks  some  new  thing  and  is  appeased  with  hope. 

But  brief  the  time  between  that  when  and  this,  ^6 

Of  my  expecting,  say  I,  and  my  sight 
Of  heaven  growing  bright  and  brighter  still. 

And  Beatrice  to  me :  ''Behold  the  hosts  1^ 

Of  the  Triumphant  Christ,  and  all  the  fruit 
Borne  by  the  revolution  of  these  spheres.'' 

It  seemed  to  me  her  face  was  all  aglow,  22 

And  in  her  eyes  fulness  of  joy  so  great. 
That  I,  perforce,  must  leave  it  undescribed. 

As,  when  the  moon  is  full  and  clear  the  sky,  25 

Trivia  smiles  among  the  eternal  nymphs, 
Who  paint  the  heaven  throughout  all  its  depths, 

I  saw  above  the  myriads  of  lamps  28 

A  Sun,  enkindling  each  and  all  of  them, 
As  does  our  own  the  spectacle  on  high, 

And  through  its  living  light  was  shining  down  31 


390  THE  DIVINE  COMEDY 

The  lucent  Substance  in  such  brilliancy 
Upon  my  face  that  I  sustained  it  not. 

0  Beatrice,  sweet  and  beloved  Guide !  34 
She  said  to  me :  '  *  That  overwhelming  thee 

Is  virtue,  against  which  is  no  defence. 

The  Wisdom  and  the  Power  that  opened  wide  37 

The  paths  to  heaven  from  the  earth  is  here, 
Of  which  there  was  such  long  desire  of  old. '  * 

As  fire  from  cloud  unlocks  itself,  because,  ^ 

Expanding  so,  it  can  not  be  contained, 
And  'gainst  its  nature  downward  falls  to  earth : 

Even  so  had  then  my  mind  amid  those  feasts  ^ 

Becoming  greater  issued  from  itself. 
And  can  not  summon  back  what  it  became. 

*  *  Open  thine  eyes,  and  look  on  what  I  am ;  46 

Such  things  hast  thou  beheld,  thou  hast  become 
Of  strength  sufficient  to  sustain  my  smile.'* 

1  was  as  one  who  comes  to  consciousness  49 
From  a  forgotten  vision,  and  who  tries 

In  vain  to  bring  it  back  to  mind,  when  I 
Had  heard  this  invitation,  that  deserves  52 

Such  gratitude  as  never  from  the  book 

That  registers  the  past  can  be  effaced. 
If  all  those  tongues  that  Polyhymnia  55 

Together  with  her  sisters  made  to  be 

The  richest  with  their  sweetest  milk,  were  now 
To  sound  to  aid  me,  not  the  thousandth  part  58 

Of  truth  were  reached,  singing  the  holy  smile 

And  how  it  made  the  holy  face  resplendent. 
And  thus,  depicting  Paradise,  must  needs  ^^ 

The  sacred  poem  now  move  on  by  bounds, 

Even  as  one  who  finds  his  way  cut  off. 
But  whoso  thinks  upon  the  ponderous  theme  ^4 

And  on  the  mortal  shoulder  with  its  load, 


PARADISO,  XXIII  391 

Would  not  reproach  it,  if  thereunder  trembling. 
It  is  no  voyage  for  a  little  bark,  67 

This  which  the  daring  prow  goes  cleaving,  nor 

For  boatman  who  is  sparing  of  himself. 
* '  Why  with  my  face  art  thou  enamoured  so  70 

As  not  to  turn  to  that  fair  garden,  which 

Beneath  the  rays  of  Christ  is  blossoming? 
Here  is  the  rose,  in  which  the  Word  Divine  73 

Made  Itself  flesh ;  and  here  the  lilies  are. 

By  whose  sweet  odor  the  good  way  was  taken. ' ' 
Thus  Beatrice;  and  I,  in  readiness  76 

Completely  for  her  counseling,  again 

Entered  the  battle  of  the  feeble  brows. 
As  in  a  beam  of  sunlight  that  streams  clear  79 

Through  rifted  cloud,  my  shadow-covered  eyes 

Have  seen  ere  now  a  field  of  flowers,  so, 
Many  a  throng  of  splendors  I  beheld  82 

Bright  with  a  burning  radiance  from  on  high, 

Without  the  source  of  brightness  being  seen. 
Benignant  Power  which  thus  imprintest  them,  85 

On  high  didst  Thou  uplift  Thyself  to  grant 

Scope  to  the  eyes  that  there  were  powerless. 
The  name  of  that  fair  flower  which  I  invoke  88 

Ever  at  morn  and  eve  wholly  constrained 

My  mind  to  gaze  upon  the  greater  fire. 
And  when  was  painted  on  my  eyes  the  kind  91 

And  greatness  of  that  living  star  which  there 

Conquers  as  it  has  conquered  here  below. 
From  the  mid-heaven  there  came  down  a  torch,  ^4 

Formed  in  a  round  in  fashion  of  a  crown. 

Engirding  her  within  its  circling  sweep. 
Whatever  melody  sounds  sweetest  here  ^7 

Below,  and  to  itself  most  draws  the  soul. 

Would  seem  but  thunder  of  a  rended  cloud 


392  THE  DIVINE  COMEDY 

Compared  to  the  resounding  of  that  lyre  100 

With  which  was  crowned  the  sapphire  beautiful, 

Wherewith  ensapphired  is  the  brightest  heaven. 
*'I  am  Angelic  Love,  and  circle  round  103 

The  exalted  joy  that  breathes  forth  from  the  womb 

That  was  the  hostelry  of  our  desire ; 
And  I  shall  circle.  Lady  of  Heaven,  until  106 

Thy  Son  thou  follow,  and  make  more  divine 

The  highest  sphere,  because  thou  enterest  it. '  * 
Thus  had  the  circling  melody  ensealed  109 

Itself,  and  all  the  other  lights  were  now 

Making  the  name  of  Mary  to  resound. 
Of  all  the  revolutions  of  the  world  112 

The  royal  mantle,  most  on  fire  and  most 

Enlivened  with  the  breath  and  laws  of  God, 
Had  at  so  great  a  distance  over  us  115 

Its  inner  shore,  that  where  I  was  it  had 

Not  yet  made  its  appearance  to  my  view. 
Therefore  my  eyes  were  lacking  in  the  power  US 

To  follow  after  the  encrowned  flame. 

Which  raised  itself  to  be  beside  her  Seed. 
And  as  a  babe,  when  it  has  fed  upon  121 

Its  mother 's  milk,  holds  out  its  arms  to  her 

In  love  that  even  outwardly  flames  up  : 
So  did  those  splendors  upward  stretch  themselves,  124 

Each  with  his  flame,  that  their  exalted  love 

Of  Mary  was  made  manifest  to  me. 
Then  they  remained  there  in  my  sight  and  sang  127 

Regina  coeli  with  a  sweetness  such. 

The  charm  of  it  has  never  gone  from  me. 
Oh,  what  abundant  wealth  is  there  piled  up  130 

Within  those  most  rich  coffers,  that  were  once 

Good  husbandmen  in  sowing  here  below ! 
Here  live  they,  joying  in  a  treasure  gained  133 


PARADISO,  XXIV  393 

In  Babylonian  exile  as  they  wept 

And  where  the  gold  was  left  aside  by  them. 

Here  triumphs  under  the  exalted  Son  136 

Of  God  and  Mary,  in  his  victory, 
With  both  the  ancient  council  and  the  new, 

He  who  of  so  great  glory  holds  the  keys.  139 


CANTO  XXIV 

'*0  iTE  who  are  the  fellowship  elect 

To  the  great  supper  of  the  Blessed  Lamb, 

Who  so  feeds  you,  your  wish  is  e'er  fulfilled, 
As  by  the  grace  of  God  this  man  foretastes  4 

Of  that  which  from  your  table  falls,  before 

A  time  has  been  prescribed  to  him  by  death, 
Give  heed  to  his  immeasurable  desire;  7 

Bedew  him  somewhat;  ye  drink  ever  of 

The  Fountain,  whence  comes  that  of  which  he  thinks. ' ' 
Thu^  Beatrice ;  and  those  rejoicing  souls  10 

Became  as  spheres  on  fixed  poles  that  turn. 

Flaming  as  with  the  comet's  brilliancy. 
And  like  the  clock-work's  wheels,  that  so  revolve  13 

That  to  one  giving  heed  the  first  appears 

To  be  at  rest,  the  outermost  to  fly. 
These  carols,  differently  dancing,  so  1^ 

Caused  me  to  have  opinion  of  their  wealth 

As  they  were  in  their  motion  swift  and  slow. 
One  I  had  noted  as  most  beautiful,  1^ 

And  thence  I  saw  a  fire  so  happy  come 

That  none  of  greater  brightness  there  remained ; 
And  it  revolved  three  times  round  Beatrice  22 

With  so  divine  a  song  that  fantasy 

Repeats  it  not  to  me ;  therefore  my  pen 


394  THE  DIVINE  COMEDY 

0  'erleaps  it,  and  I  write  it  not,  because  25 

Imagination  and  much  more  our  speech, 
Is  of  too  vivid  color  for  such  folds. 

*  *  0  holy  sister  mine,  whose  prayer  of  us  28 

Is  so  devout,  by  thine  affection's  fire 

From  bonds  of  that  fair  sphere  thou  freest  me. ' ' 
For,  having  ceased  to  move,  the  blessed  fire  31 

Directed  to  my  Lady  thereupon 

The  breath  whose  words  were  such  as  I  have  said. 
And  she :  * '  Eternal  light  of  that  great  man,  34 

To  whom  our  Lord  bequeathed  the  keys,  that  He 

Had  borne  below,  of  this  amazing  joy. 
Put  this  man  to  the  test  on  points  both  light  37 

And  grave,  as  shall  please  thee,  about  the  faith. 

Through  which  thyself  didst  walk  upon  the  sea. 
If  he  loves  rightly,  rightly  hopes,  believes,  40 

It  is  not  hidden  from  thee,  for  thou  hast 

Thy  sight  where  everything  is  seen  portrayed. 
But  as  this  kingdom  has  made  citizens  43 

Through  the  true  faith,  to  set  its  glory  forth 

It  is  well  that  speaking  of  it  fall  to  him. '  * 
As  when  the  bachelor  arms  himself, — and  speaks  46 

First  when  the  master  has  set  forth  the  case, — 

To  bring  the  proof  and  not  to  settle  it : 
So  I  with  every  reason  armed  myself  49 

While  she  yet  spoke,  to  be  prepared  for  such 

A  questioner  and  for  professing  thus. 
"Tell  me,  good  Christian,  manifest  thyself:  52 

Faith,  what  is  it  ? "    Whereon  I  raised  my  brow 

Toward  the  light  from  which  this  had  been  breathed ; 
Then  turned  I  me  to  Beatrice,  and  she  55 

Made  quickly  signals  to  me  that  I  pour 

The  water  forth  from  my  internal  fount. 

*  *  The  grace  which  grants  that  I  confess  myself  58 


PARADISO,  XXIV  395 

Before  the  chief  centurion, ' '  I  began, 

' '  Cause  my  conceptions  to  be  well  expressed ! ' ' 
And  I  went  on:  *'As  the  veracious  pen  61 

Of  thy  dear  brother,  who  with  thee  put  Rome 

On  the  right  pathway,  Father,  wrote  of  it, 
Faith  is  the  substance  of  the  things  hoped  for  64 

And  evidence  of  those  not  seen ;  and  this 

Appears  to  me  its  essence."    Then  I  heard: 
''Thou  thinkest  rightly,  if  thou  comprehend  67 

Why  he  first  placed  it  with  the  substances. 

And  with  the  evidences  afterwards." 
And  I  thereon  continued:  "The  deep  things,  70 

That  grant  me  visible  appearance  here. 

Are  so  concealed  from  sight  of  those  below. 
That  they  exist  there  to  belief  alone,  73 

On  which  is  founded  the  exalted  hope. 

And  takes  the  name  of  substance  on  that  ground ; 
And  it  behoves  us  thus  from  this  belief  76 

To  syllogize,  lacking  in  other  sight ; 

Therefore  it  takes  the  name  of  evidence." 
And  then  I  heard :  "  If  whatsoe  'er  is  won  79 

Below  as  doctrine  were  thus  understood, 

The  sophist's  cunning  would  have  no  place  there. " 
Such  was  the  breath  from  that  enkindled  love ;  82 

It  added  then :  ' '  Gone  over  very  well 

Already  is  this  coin's  alloy  and  weight; 
But  tell  me  if  thou  hast  it  in  thy  purse  ? "  85 

Whereon  I :  "  Yes,  I  have,  so  bright  and  round 

That  of  its  stamp  I  have  no  doubt  at  all." 
Then  from  the  deep  light  that  was  glowing  there  88 

Came  forth:  "This  precious  jewel,  upon  which 

Is  founded  every  virtue,  whence  came  it 
To  thee  ? ' '    And  I :  "  The  Holy  Spirit 's  rain  »l 

That  is  abundant,  and  that  is  outpoured 


396  THE  DIVINE  COMEDY 

Upon  the  parchments,  both  the  Old  and  New, 
Is  argument  convincing  me  thereof  ^4 

"With  such  acuteness,  that  compared  with  it 

All  demonstration  seems  obtuse  to  me.'* 
Then  heard  I :  * '  That  which  is  such  proof  to  thee,  ®7 

The  ancient  proposition  and  the  new, 

Why  boldest  thou  them  for  divine  discourse  ? ' ' 
And  1:"  The  proof  that  shows  their  truth  to  me  1^0 

Is  works  that  followed,  for  which  Nature  never 

Her  iron  heated  nor  her  anvil  beat. ' ' 
It  was  replied  to  me :  *'Tell  me  what  makes  ^03 

Thee  sure  that  these  works  were  ?    The  very  thing 

That  shall  be  proved,  naught  else,  swears  it  to  thee. '  * 
"If  without  miracles,"  said  I,  ''the  world  1^6 

Was  turned  to  Christianity,  this  one 

Is  such,  the  others  were  no  hundredth  part ; 
For  thou  didst  enter,  poor  and  hungering,  109 

Into  the  field,  to  sow  the  goodly  plant. 

That  was  a  vine,  but  turned  a  bramble  now. ' ' 
When  this  was  ended,  the  high,  holy  court  112 

Resounded  through  its  spheres  a  Praise  we  God 

In  the  melody  that  in  those  heights  is  sung. 
That  Baron,  who  had  thus  from  branch  to  branch,  1^5 

Examining,  already  drawn  me  on 

Until  we  were  approaching  the  last  leaves, 
Began  again :  '  *  The  Grace  that  with  thy  mind  US 

Holds  friendly  in  her  course,  has  until  now 

Opened  thy  lips  as  it  should  open  them. 
Even  so  that  I  approve  what  they  put  forth ;  121 

But  now  what  thou  believest  shalt  thou  state, 

And  how  it  comes  to  be  of  thy  belief. ' ' 
**0  holy  Father,  spirit  who  dost  see  12* 

What  thou  believedst  so  that  thou  outdidst 

The  younger  feet  toward  the  sepulchre,  * ' 


PARADISO,  XXV  397 

Began  I,  ''thou  wilt  that  I  here  declare  127 

The  form  of  my  unhesitating  faith, 

And  also  hast  thou  asked  the  cause  of  it ; 
And  I  respond :  In  one  God  I  believe,  130 

Sole  and  eternal,  who  moves  all  the  heavens, 

Himself  not  moved,  with  love  and  with  desire. 
And  for  such  faith  have  I  not  only  proofs  133 

Both  physical  and  metaphysical, 

But  too  that  given  me  by  the  truth  that  rains  [Psalms, 
Through  Moses  down,  through  Prophets,  and  through      136 

Through  the  Evangel,  and  through  you  who  wrote 

After  the  fiery  Spirit  made  you  divine. 
And  in  three  Persons  I  believe,  eternal,  139 

And  these  one  Essence,  one  and  three-fold  so 

That  it  admits  of  are  and  is  conjoined. 
Of  the  profound  divine  condition,  which  142 

I  touch  upon,  sets  on  my  mind  its  seal 

The  evangelic  doctrine  many  times. 
And  this  is  the  beginning,  this  the  spark,  145 

Which  afterwards  expands  to  vivid  flame. 

Within  me  sparkling  like  a  star  in  heaven." 
Even  as  a  lord,  who  hears  what  pleases  him,  148 

Rejoicing  in  the  news,  embraces  then 

His  servant,  soon  as  he  has  ceased  to  speak : 
Thus,  giving  me  his  blessing  as  he  sang,  151 

When  I  was  silent  thrice  encircled  me 

The  apostolic  light,  at  whose  command 
I  spoke ;  so  had  I  pleased  him  in  my  speech.  154 

CANTO  XXV 

If  e  'er  it  happen  that  the  sacred  poem, 

To  which  both  heaven  and  earth  have  so  put  hand. 
That  it  has  made  me  lean  for  many  years, 


398  THE  DIVINE  COMEDY 

Overcome  the  cruelty  that  bars  me  out  * 

Of  the  fair  sheepfold,  where  a  lamb  I  slept, 

Foe  to  the  wolves  that  wage  their  war  on  it ; 
With  other  voice  thenceforth,  with  other  fleece,  7 

Will  I  go  back  a  poet,  and  will  then 

On  my  baptismal  font  receive  the  crown ; 
For  there  into  the  faith  I  entered,  which  10 

Makes  known  the  souls  to  God,  and  for  its  sake 

Had  Peter  then  encircled  thus  my  brow. 
Following  that,  there  moved  a  light  toward  us  ^3 

From  out  that  sphere  whence  issued  the  first-fruit 

That  Christ  left  of  His  vicars  after  Him. 
And  full  of  joy  my  Lady  said  to  me :  1^ 

*  *  Look,  look !    Behold  the  Baron,  for  whose  sake 
Galicia  there  below  is  visited. '  * 

As  when  a  dove  alights  beside  his  mate  ^^ 

And  each  one  to  the  other  manifests. 

Circling  and  cooing,  his  affection,  so 
Beheld  I  how  each  great  Prince  glorious  22 

Was  welcomed  by  the  other,  as  they  praised 

The  food  of  their  partaking  there  on  high. 
But  when  their  gratulation  was  completed,  25 

Silently,  coram  me,  each  one  stood  still, 

So  blazing  that  it  overcame  my  face. 
And  thereupon,  smiling,  said  Beatrice :  28 

*  *  Illustrious  life,  through  whom  the  bounteousness 
Of  our  basilica  is  written,  make 

This  height  re-echo  with  the  voice  of  hope ;  ^^ 

Thou  figurest  it,  thou  knowest,  as  many  times 
As  Jesus  showed  most  brightness  to  the  three. ' ' 

*  *  Lift  up  thy  head,  and  be  thou  reassured ;  ^* 

For  that  which  hither  from  the  mortal  world 
Ascends,  must  needs  be  ripened  in  our  rajrs.*' 

This  comfort  from  the  second  fire  was  mine ;  *^ 


PARADISO,  XXV  399 

And  to  the  hills  I  lifted  up  mine  eyes, 

Which  bowed  them  down  before  with  too  great  weight. 
''Since  now  by  grace  it  is  our  Emperor's  will  40 

That  thou  before  thy  death  stand  face  to  face 

In  the  most  secret  chamber  with  his  counts, 
So  that,  the  truth  of  this  court  seen,  thereby  43 

Thou  mayst  confirm  thine  own  and  others'  hope, 

Which  there  below  enamours  rightfully ; 
Say  what  it  is,  and  how  within  thy  mind  46 

It  comes  to  flower,  and  whence  it  came  to  thee. ' ' 

Thus  spoke,  continuing,  the  second  light. 
And  that  compassionate  one,  who  guided  then  49 

The  feathers  of  my  wings  for  flight  so  high, 

Thus  answering,  anticipated  me: 
**  There  is  no  child  of  the  Church  Militant  52 

Possessed  of  greater  hope,  as  it  is  written 

Within  the  Sun,  that  shines  on  all  our  band ; 
Therefore  it  is  granted  him  that  he  should  come  55 

From  Egypt  to  Jerusalem  to  see, 

Before  for  him  the  warfare  terminate. 
The  two  remaining  points,  which  are  called  for,  58 

Not  for  the  learning  but  so  that  he  may 

Report  how  much  this  virtue  pleases  thee. 
To  him  I  leave ;  for  they  will  not  be  hard,  61 

Nor  cause  of  boasting ;  let  him  answer  them, 

And  may  the  grace  of  God  grant  this  to  him ! ' ' 
As  pupil  follows  teacher,  readily  64 

And  glad  in  that  in  which  he  is  expert, 

If  so  his  quality  be  brought  to  light : 
**Hope, "  said  I,  ''is  an  expectation  sure  67 

Of  glory  that  shall  be,  which  is  produced 

By  grace  divine  and  merit  that  precedes. 
From  many  stars  does  this  light  come  to  me ;  70 

But  he  into  my  heart  instilled  it  first, 


400  THE  DIVINE  COMEDY 

Singer  supreme  of  Him,  the  Guide  Supreme. 

For  in  his  theody  he  says: '/S^peren^  73 

In  te  who  know  Thy  name ; '  and  who  is  there 
That  knows  it  not,  if  he  has  faith  like  mine  ? 

To  his  instilling  didst  thou  add  thine  own  76 

In  thine  Epistle  later,  so  that  I 
Am  full,  and  upon  others  shower  your  rain. ' ' 

While  I  still  spoke,  within  the  living  bosom  79 

Of  that  great  fire  was  quivering  a  blaze, 
Sudden  and  frequent,  like  the  lightning 's  flash. 

Then  breathed  it  forth :  ' '  The  love  with  which  I  still         82 
Am  glowing  toward  the  virtue,  which  kept  on 
With  me  to  the  palm  and  leaving  of  the  field, 

Wills  that  I  breathe  again  to  thee,  who  dost  85 

Delight  in  it ;  and  I  were  pleased,  if  thou 
Wouldst  speak  of  what  Hope  promises  to  thee. '  * 

And  I :  * '  The  Scriptures  Old  and  New  set  up  88 

The  mark  of  souls  whom  God  has  made  His  friends, 
And  this  it  is  that  points  that  out  to  me. 

Isaiah  says  that  every  one  shall  be  ^^ 

In  his  own  land  with  double  garment  clothed. 
And  his  own  land  shall  be  this  joyous  life ; 

And  with  far  greater  fulness  has  been  made  ^* 

This  revelation  manifest  to  us 
There  where  thy  brother  of  the  white  robes  treats. '  * 

And  closely  following  these  words,  at  first  ^7 

Sperent  in  te  above  us  could  be  heard. 
To  which  the  carols  all  made  their  response ; 

Then  in  their  midst  a  light  became  so  bright  ^^ 

That,  had  the  Crab  but  one  such  crystal,  then 
Would  winter  have  a  month  of  one  sole  day. 

And  as  will  rise  and  go  and  join  the  dance  ^^^ 

A  happy  maiden,  only  that  she  may 
Honor  the  bride,  and  not  for  any  wrong : 


PARADISO,  XXV  401 

So  I  beheld  the  brightened  splendor  come  106 

Toward  the  two,  who  like  a  wheel  revolved, 

As  well  accorded  with  their  ardent  love. 
It  joined  there  in  the  measure  and  the  song;  109 

And  upon  them  my  Lady  kept  her  gaze, 

Even  as  a  bride,  silent  and  motionless. 
* '  This  is  the  one,  who  lay  upon  the  breast  112 

Of  Him,  our  Pelican,  and  he  it  was 

From  on  the  cross  to  the  great  office  chosen. ' ' 
My  Lady  thus ;  nor  any  more  did  she  115 

Remove  the  fixed  attention  of  her  look 

After  her  words,  for  that  cause,  than  before. 
Like  one  who  gazes  and  applies  himself  118 

To  see  the  sun  a  little  in  eclipse 

And  through  his  seeing  comes  to  see  no  more : 
Such  had  I  grown  to  be  at  this  last  fire,  121 

Till  it  was  said:  ''Why  dazzlest  thou  thyself 

To  see  a  thing  which  here  has  not  its  place  ? 
Earth  is  my  body  upon  earth,  and  bides  124 

There  with  the  others  till  our  number  be 

With  the  eternal  purpose  equalized. 
With  the  two  robes  in  the  blest  cloister  are  127 

The  two  lights  only  that  went  up  on  high ; 

And  this  thou  shalt  report  unto  your  world.'' 
At  this  voice  came  to  rest  the  flaming  whirl  1^0 

Together  with  the  sweet  commingled  sound 

That  had  been  uttered  by  the  three-fold  breath. 
Even  as  when,  to  end  fatigue  or  risk,  133 

The  oars,  that  beat  the  water  back  but  now, 

All  stop  their  motion  at  the  whistle's  sound. 
And  oh,  in  what  commotion  was  my  mind  136 

When  I  had  turned  to  look  on  Beatrice, 

Because  I  could  not  see  her,  though  I  was 
Close  at  her  side  and  in  the  world  of  bliss !  13^ 


402  THE  DIVINE  COMEDY 


CANTO  XXVI 

While  I  still  feared  because  of  my  quenched  sight, 
From  the  effulgent  flame  that  quenched  it  came 
A  breath  which  made  me  give  attentive  heed, 

Saying:  ''Until  thou  gain  again  the  sense  4 

Of  sight,  which  thou  hast  upon  me  consumed. 
It  is  well  that  thou  with  converse  fill  its  place. 

Do  thou  commence,  then,  and  tell  whither  tends  7 

Thy  soul ;  and  be  assured  the  power  of  sight 
In  thee  is  overwhelmed  and  is  not  dead ; 

Because  the  Lady,  who  through  this  divine  10 

Region  is  guiding  thee,  has  in  her  look 
The  virtue  Ananias'  hand  possessed.'' 

I  said:  *'At  her  own  pleasure,  soon  or  late,  13 

Be  cured  the  eyes  that  were  the  gates  where  she 
Came  in  with  the  fire,  wherewith  I  ever  burn ! 

The  Good  that  makes  this  court  content  is  both  ^^ 

Alpha  and  Omega  of  whatsoe'er 
Of  scripture  Love  reads  me,  softly  or  loud." 

The  self -same  voice  that  took  away  from  me  1^ 

Fear  of  the  sudden  dazzling,  placed  on  me 
The  care  of  further  speaking,  and  it  said: 

''Surely  with  sieve  of  finer  mesh  must  thou  22 

Needs  do  the  sifting ;  thou  hast  need  to  say 
Who  made  thy  bow  at  such  a  target  aim." 

And  I:  "By  philosophic  arguments  25 

And  by  authority  come  down  from  here 
Such  love  must  needs  impress  itself  on  me; 

For  good,  as  being  good,  is  grasped  no  sooner  28 

But  it  enkindles  love,  and  so  much  more 
As  it  has  more  of  goodness  in  itself. 

Hence,  to  the  Being  so  pre-excellent  81 


PARADISO,  XXVI  403 

That  every  good  which  is  outside  of  It 

Is  but  a  beam  of  Its  own  radiance, 
More  than  to  any  other  must  the  mind  34 

Of  each  one  who  discerns  the  truth  whereon 

This  argument  is  based,  be  moved  in  love. 
This  truth  is  made  plain  to  my  intellect  37 

By  him  who  proves  to  me  the  primal  love 

Of  all  the  sempiternal  substances. 
The  voice  of  the  true  Author  makes  it  plain,  40 

Who  says  to  Moses,  speaking  of  Himself: 

'All  goodness  will  I  cause  thee  to  behold.' 
Thou,  too,  dost  make  it  plain  to  me,  beginning  43 

The  high  announcement  which  proclaims  below 

Above  all  other  trump,  that  hidden  here." 
And  I  heard :  ' '  Through  intelligence  of  man  46 

And  through  authorities  in  unison 

The  highest  of  thy  laws  looks  unto  God. 
But  tell  me  further  if  thou  feel  besides  49 

Cords  drawing  thee  toward  Him,  that  thou  mayst  thus 

Say  with  how  many  teeth  this  love  bites  thee. ' ' 
The  holy  purpose  of  Christ's  Eagle  thus  52 

Was  not  obscure ;  nay,  rather,  I  perceived 

Whither  he  would  that  my  profession  tend. 
Therefore  again  began  I :  "  All  those  bites  55 

That  have  the  power  to  turn  the  heart  to  God 

Have  been  concurrent  to  the  love  in  me; 
For  the  existence  of  the  world,  and  mine,  58 

The  death  that  He  endured  that  I  may  live, 

And  that  which  all  the  faithful  hope  as  I, 
With  the  aforenamed  lively  consciousness,  ^^ 

Had  drawn  me  from  the  sea  of  wrongful  love, 

And  of  the  right  have  set  me  on  the  shore. 
The  leaves,  with  which  enleaved  is  all  the  garden  64 

Of  the  Eternal  Gardener,  love  I 


404  THE  DIVINE  COMEDY 

According  to  the  good  He  bears  to  them.'* 
As  soon  as  I  had  ceased,  a  song  most  sweet  67 

Resounded  through  the  heavens,  and  my  Lady 

Said  with  the  others:  ''Holy!  Holy!  Holy!'' 
And  as  at  a  keen  light  one  breaks  his  sleep,  70 

Because  the  visual  spirit  runs  to  meet 

The  splendor  that  goes  on  from  coat  to  coat. 
And  he,  awakened,  shrinks  from  what  he  sees,  73 

So  void  of  thought  his  sudden  wakening, 

Until  discernment  come  to  succor  him: 
So  from  my  eyes  was  every  mote  expelled  76 

By  Beatrice  with  radiance  of  her  own, 

Which  cast  their  light  more  than  a  thousand  miles ; 
So  that  I  then  saw  better  than  before,  79 

And  like  one  who  is  in  a  stupor,  asked 

About  a  fourth  light  which  I  saw  with  us. 
And  then  my  Lady :  ' '  There  within  those  rays  82 

With  joy  looks  on  its  Maker  the  first  soul 

Ever  created  by  the  Primal  Power. ' ' 
As  at  the  passing  of  the  wind  a  branch  85 

Will  bend  its  top,  and  afterwards  will  raise 

Itself,  by  its  own  virtue  lifted  up, 
So  had  I  done  while  she  was  speaking  thus,  88 

In  my  amazement ;  then  a  wish  to  speak, 

With  which  I  burned,  restored  my  confidence ; 
And  I  began :  *  *  0  fruit,  that  wast  alone  91 

Produced  mature,  0  ancient  Sire,  to  whom 

Is  every  bride  a  daughter  and  daughter-in-law ; 
With  all  devotion  thee  I  supplicate  94 

That  thou  wilt  speak  to  me ;  thou  seest  my  wish, 

Unsaid,  that  I  may  hear  thee  speedily. ' ' 
Sometimes  an  animal  when  covered  up  97 

So  twists  that  its  desire  must  needs  appear 

By  that  which  wraps  it,  moving  thus  with  it ; 


PARADISO,  XXVI  405 

And  in  like  manner  did  this  first  of  souls  100 

Cause  through  its  covering  to  appear  to  me 

How  gladly  for  my  pleasure  it  had  come. 
Then  it  breathed  forth:  "Without  thy  proffering,  103 

Do  I  discern  thy  will  better  than  thou 

Dost  whatsoever  is  most  sure  to  thee ; 
For  I  behold  it  in  the  truthful  Glass,  106 

Which  makes  Itself  reflection  of  all  else. 

While  Its  reflection  naught  can  make  itself. 
Thou  wouldst  fain  know  how  long  it  is  since  God  109 

Within  the  lofty  garden  placed  me,  where 

This  Lady  for  a  stair  so  high  prepared  thee, 
And  for  how  long  it  was  my  eyes'  delight,  112 

And  of  the  great  displeasure  the  true  cause. 

And  of  the  idiom  that  I  used  and  made. 
Now,  not  the  tasting  of  the  tree,  my  son,  115 

Caused  by  itself  so  great  an  exile,  but 

Only  the  overstepping  of  the  bound. 
There,  whence  thy  Lady  caused  Virgil  to  go,  118 

I  longed  for  this  assembly  while  the  sun 

Four  thousand  times,  three  hundred  times,  and  twice 
Revolved ;  and  I  saw  him  return  to  all  121 

The  lights  upon  his  path  nine  hundred  times 

And  thirty  while  I  was  upon  the  earth. 
The  language  that  I  spoke  was  all  extinct  124 

Long  ere  the  people  of  Nimrod  essayed 

To  do  the  work  they  could  not  consummate; 
For  no  effect  that  comes  from  reasoning, —  127 

Because  of  human  pleasure,  that  is  changed 

Obeying  heaven, — was  ever  permanent. 
A  work  of  nature  is  it  man  should  speak;  1^0 

But,  so  or  so,  nature  permits  you  then 

To  do  according  as  it  pleases  you. 
Ere  I  descended  to  the  pains  of  hell,  l^^ 


406  THE  DIVINE  COMEDY 

I  was  the  name  on  earth  of  the  Supreme  Good, 
Whence  comes  the  gladness  that  envelops  me ; 

El  was  It  later  called ;  and  that  must  be,  136 

For  mortal  custom  is  as  foliage 
On  branch,  that  passes,  and  another  comes. 

Upon  the  Mount  that  highest  rears  itself  139 

Above  the  wave  was  I,  with  sinless  life 
And  sinful,  from  the  first  hour  to  that  next 

The  sixth,  when  the  sun 's  quadrant  has  been  changed. '  *     1^2 


CANTO  XXVII 

* '  Glory  to  Father,  and  to  Son,  and  to 

The  Holy  Ghost,"  began  all  Paradise, 

So  that  I  was  inebriate  with  sweet  song. 
That  which  I  saw  appeared  to  me  a  smile  * 

Of  the  universe ;  by  hearing  and  by  sight 

Had  my  inebriation  entered  me. 
0  joy !    0  happiness  ineffable !  7 

0  life  of  perfectness  of  love  and  peace ! 

0  riches  without  longing  and  secure ! 
Before  these  eyes  of  mine  four  torches  stood  10 

Enkindled,  and  that  one  which  first  had  come 

Commenced  to  make  itself  a  brighter  flame ; 
And  he  became  in  outward  semblance  such  13 

As  Jupiter  would  be,  if  he  and  Mars 

Were  birds,  and  were  their  plumage  interchanged. 
The  Providence,  which  makes  assignment  here  ^^ 

Of  turn  and  office,  had  on  every  side 

Imposed  a  silence  on  the  blessed  choir, 
When  I  heard :  "  If  I  change  my  color,  yet  !• 

Marvel  thou  not  at  it ;  for  thou  shalt  see 

All  these  change  color,  even  while  I  speak. 


PARADISO,  XXVII  407 

He  who  usurps  on  earth  my  place,  my  place,  22 

My  place,  that  is  without  an  occupant 

Before  the  presence  of  the  Son  of  God, 
Has  of  my  cemetery  made  a  sewer  25 

Of  blood  and  filth,  with  which  he,  the  perverse. 

Who  fell  from  here  on  high,  down  there  is  pleased. ' ' 
Such  color  as  from  the  sun  opposite  28 

At  morning  or  at  evening  paints  a  cloud, 

Saw  I  then  all  the  heavens  overspread ; 
And  as  a  modest  lady,  who  abides  31 

Sure  of  herself,  and  at  another's  fault 

"When  merely  listened  to,  grows  timorous. 
So  Beatrice  changed  semblance ;  and  I  think  34 

That  such  eclipse  there  was  in  heaven  at 

The  time  of  suffering  of  the  Power  Supreme. 
And  thereupon  continuing  his  words  37 

With  such  a  voice  transmuted  from  itself 

That  his  appearance  knew  not  greater  change : 
* '  The  Bride  of  Christ  ^as  not  on  my  blood  nurtured         40 

And  not  on  that  of  Linus,  nor  on  that 

Of  Cletus  to  be  used  for  gain  of  gold; 
But  for  the  winning  of  this  happy  life  43 

Did  Sixtus,  Pius,  Calixtus,  Urban  shed 

Their  blood,  when  they  had  wept  so  many  tears. 
It  was  not  our  intention  that  a  part  46 

Of  the  Christian  people  should  sit  on  the  right 

Of  our  successors,  part  upon  the  left; 
Nor  that  the  keys,  which  had  been  granted  me,  49 

Become  an  emblem  on  a  standard  borne 

In  combat  against  those  who  were  baptized. 
Nor  that  I  be  a  figure  on  a  seal  52 

To  venal  and  mendacious  privileges. 

At  which  I  often  redden  and  flash  forth. 
In  shepherd's  clothing  ravening  wolves  are  seen  55 


408  THE  DIVINE  COMEDY 

From  here  on  high  through  all  the  pastures ;  oh ! 

Defence  of  God,  why  art  thou  still  asleep  ? 
They  of  Cahors  and  Gascony  prepare  58 

To  drink  our  blood.    0  thou  begun  so  well, 

To  what  vile  end  is  it  needful  that  thou  fall? 
But  the  high  Providence,  which  saved  for  Rome  61 

The  glory  of  the  world  through  Scipio, 

Will  succor  speedily,  as  I  conceive. 
And  then,  my  son,  who  for  thy  mortal  weight  64 

Shalt  yet  return  below,  open  thy  mouth. 

Conceal  not  that  which  I  do  not  conceal." 
Even  as  our  air  the  frozen  vapors  sends  67 

Downward  in  flakes,  when  the  Goat's  horn  in  heaven 

Is  touched  by  the  sun,  in  such  a  way  saw  I 
Upward  the  ether  beautify  itself,  70 

And  those  triumphant  vapors  send  in  flakes. 

Which  had  been  making  sojourn  there  with  us. 
My  sight  was  following  their  semblances,  73 

And  followed,  till  the  interval  so  vast 

Deprived  it  of  proceeding  further  on. 
Whereon  my  Lady,  who  observed  me  freed  76 

From  gazing  upward,  said  to  me :  * '  Cast  down 

Thy  sight,  and  see  how  fast  thou  hast  revolved.  * ' 
Since  that  hour  when  I  had  looked  down  before  79 

I  saw  that  I  had  moved  through  all  the  arc. 

Which  the  flrst  climate  makes  from  middle  to  end ; 
So  beyond  Cadiz  I  could  see  the  mad  82 

Track  of  Ulysses;  and,  that  side,  almost 

The  shore  on  which  Europa  made  herself 
A  burden  sweet ;  more  of  this  threshing-floor  85 

Were  bared  to  me,  save  that  the  sun  advanced 

Beneath  my  feet,  a  sign  and  more  removed. 
My  mind  enamoured,  fondly  following  88 

My  Lady  ever,  far  more  than  before 


PARADISO,  XXVII  409 

"Was  ardent  to  lead  back  my  eyes  to  her. 
If  nature  or  if  art  has  made  a  lure  91 

To  catch  the  eyes,  so  that  the  mind  be  held, 

In  human  flesh  or  in  its  pictured  forms, 
They  all  united  would  seem  naught  beside  94 

The  joy  divine  reflected  upon  me 

When  I  had  turned  me  to  her  smiling  face. 
The  virtue  which  her  look  vouchsafed  to  me  97 

From  the  fair  nest  of  Leda  parted  me, 

And  to  the  swiftest  heaven  thrust  me  on. 
Its  parts  most  full  of  life  and  lofty  are  100 

So  uniform  that  I  can  not  assert 

Which  Beatrice  selected  for  my  place. 
But  she  who  saw  my  longing  thus  began,  103 

Smiling  with  so  much  happiness,  that  God 

Appeared  rejoicing  in  her  countenance: 
'  *  The  nature  of  the  world  which  holds  at  rest  106 

The  centre,  and  around  it  moves  all  else, 

Commences  here  as  with  a  starting-point. 
This  heaven  has  no  place  of  being  but  109 

The  Mind  Divine,  in  which  take  fire  the  love 

That  turns  it  and  the  virtue  that  it  showers. 
Encircling  light  and  love  encompass  it,  112 

As  it  the  others,  and  that  envelope 

He  who  envelops  it  alone  controls. 
No  other  motion  marks  for  it  its  own,  115 

But  all  the  rest  are  measured  by  this  one, 

Even  as  ten  is  by  its  half  and  fifth. 
And  how  time  has  its  roots  in  such  a  vase  118 

And  in  the  others  has  its  foliage 

Henceforth  is  clearly  manifest  to  thee. 
0  covetousness,  that  dost  so  submerge  121 

Mortals  beneath  thee,  that  no  one  has  power 

To  draw  away  his  sight  from  out  thy  waves ! 


410  THE  DIVINE  COMEDY 

The  will,  indeed,  comes  to  a  blossoming  124 

In  men,  but  then  the  never-ceasing  rain 

Converts  the  true  plums  into  blighted  fruit. 
Only  in  little  children  is  faith  found  127 

And  innocence;  afterwards  each  of  these. 

Before  the  cheeks  are  covered,  takes  its  flight. 
While  he  still  prattles,  such  a  one  will  fast,  130 

As  later,  when  his  tongue  is  loosed,  devours 

Whatever  food  under  whatever  moon ; 
Another,  prattling,  loves  and  listens  to  133 

His  mother,  and  when  he  speaks  perfectly 

Will  then  desire  to  see  her  burial. 
Even  so  the  skin,  at  the  first  aspect  white,  136 

Makes  itself  black  of  the  fair  child  of  him. 

Who  brings  the  morning  and  the  evening  leaves. 
Do  thou,  lest  thou  shouldst  deem  it  strange,  reflect  139 

That  there  is  no  one  governing  on  earth ; 

The  human  family  goes,  then,  astray. 
But  before  January  wholly  goes  142 

From  winter,  by  that  hundredth  part  down  there 

Neglected,  these  supernal  spheres  shall  roar 
In  such  wise  that  the  long-awaited  storm  l-^S 

Shall  turn  the  sterns  to  where  the  prows  are  now, 

So  that  the  fleet  shall  run  its  course  aright; 
And  a  true  fruit  shall  follow  on  the  flower. ' '  1^8 


CANTO  XXVIII 

When  she,  by  whom  my  mind  is  lifted  up 
To  Paradise,  had  thus  laid  bare  the  truth 
Against  the  wretched  mortals'  present  life; 

Like  him  who  in  a  mirror  sees  the  flame 
Of  an  enkindled  torch  behind  him  ere 


PARADISO,  XXVIII  411 

He  have  it  in  his  sight  or  in  his  thought, 
And  turns  about  to  see  if  so  the  glass  7 

Tell  him  the  truth,  and  sees  that  it  accords 

"With  that,  as  music  with  the  verse's  rhythm: 
Even  so  my  memory  calls  up  again  10 

What  I  did  then,  gazing  in  her  fair  eyes, 

Wherewith  Love  made  the  cord  to  capture  me. 
And  as  I  turned  about  and  mine  were  touched  13 

By  that  which  is  apparent  in  that  heaven 

When  one  looks  truly  on  it  as  it  whirls, 
I  saw  a  Point,  that  radiated  light  16 

So  keenly,  that  the  sight  on  which  it  bums 

Must  close,  because  of  its  intensity; 
And  whate'er  star  seems  smallest  seen  from  here  l^ 

Would  seem  a  moon  if  it  were  placed  by  that. 

As  one  star  by  another  has  its  place. 
Perchance  as  closely  as  a  halo  seems  22 

To  engird  the  light  that  paints  it,  when  the  cloud 

Of  vapor  bearing  it  is  densest,  thus 
Apart,  around  the  Point  a  circling  fire  25 

Revolved  so  rapidly  as  to  surpass 

The  swiftest  motion  that  engirds  the  world; 
And  this  was  by  another  girdled  round,  28 

That  by  a  third,  the  third  one  by  a  fourth. 

The  fourth  by  the  fifth,  and  that  next  by  the  sixth, 
Thereon  the  seventh  followed,  now  spread  out  31 

To  such  a  width,  that  Juno's  messenger 

Entire  were  narrow  to  encompass  it; 
So,  too,  the  eighth  and  ninth ;  and  each  of  these  34 

More  slowly  moved,  according  as  it  was 

In  number  farther  off  from  unity. 
And  that  one  had  the  clearest  flame  of  all,  37 

Whose  place  from  the  Pure  Spark  was  least  remote, 

Because,  I  think,  it  shares  most  in  Its  truth. 


412  THE  DIVINE  COMEDY 

My  Lady,  who  saw  me  in  great  suspense  40 

In  my  anxiety,  said:  '*0n  that  Point 

Does  Heaven  and  all  nature,  too,  depend. 
Look  on  that  circle  most  conjoined  to  It,  ^ 

And  know  that  in  its  motion  it  is  so  swift 

Because  of  burning  love  that  spurs  it  on." 
And  I  to  her:  ''Were  the  world  ordered  so  ^ 

As  I  behold  those  wheels,  then  what  is  now 

Set  forth  to  me  had  satisfied  my  mind; 
But  in  the  world  of  sense  it  may  be  seen,  49 

The  heavens  are  so  much  the  more  divine 

As  they  are  from  the  centre  more  remote. 
So,  if  my  longing  is  to  have  an  end  52 

Within  this  marvelous,  angelic  temple. 

Which  has  for  confines  only  love  and  light. 
Why  the  example  and  the  exemplar  go  55 

Not  in  one  manner  I  still  need  to  hear ; 

For  I  contemplate  this  in  vain  alone." 
* '  If  insufficient  for  a  knot  like  this  58 

Thy  fingers  prove,  it  is  not  marvelous. 

So  hard  has  it  become  through  not  being  tried. ' ' 
My  Lady  thus ;  afterwards  saying :  ' '  Take  ^i 

What  I  shall  say,  if  thou  wouldst  satisfy 

Thyself,  and  on  it  use  thy  subtlety. 
The  spheres  corporeal  wide  and  narrow  are  6** 

According  to  the  virtue  more  or  less 

That  is  extended  throughout  all  their  parts. 
The  greater  goodness  will  work  greater  weal,  67 

The  greater  body  for  greater  weal  empowered, 

If  in  its  parts  dwells  fulness  equally. 
Hence  this  one,  that  sweeps  with  it  onward  all  70 

The  universe  remaining,  corresponds 

To  the  circle  that  loves  most  and  that  most  knows. 
Wherefore,  if  thou  wilt  cast  thy  measure  round  ^3 


PARADISO,  XXVIII  413 

The  virtue,  not  the  form  of  Substances 

That  now  appear  as  circles  to  thy  sight, 
Thou  shalt  see  wonderful  conformity,  76 

Of  more  with  greater,  and  with  lesser,  less, 

In  each  of  the  heavens  to  its  Intelligence. ' ' 
Even  as  remains  resplendent  and  serene  79 

The  hemisphere  of  the  air,  when  Boreas 

Has  from  that  cheek,  whence  he  is  mildest,  blown. 
So  that  the  mist  that  clouded  it  before  82 

Is  cleared  away,  dissolved,  and  heaven  smiles 

On  us  with  beauties  of  its  every  part ; 
So  I  became  when  I  was  furnished  with  85 

The  clear  response  my  Lady  made  to  me, 

And  like  a  star  in  heaven  the  truth  was  seen. 
And  afterwards  when  she  had  ceased  to  speak  88 

Not  otherwise  does  iron  throw  out  sparks 

When  it  is  molten,  than  the  circles  sparkled ; 
And  every  spark  kept  following  their  blaze ;  ^1 

So  many  that  their  number  thousanded 

More  than  the  doubling  of  the  squares  of  chess. 
I  heard  Hosanna  sung  from  choir  to  choir  94 

To  the  fixed  Point,  which  holds  them  to  the  place. 

And  ever  shall,  in  which  they  e  'er  have  been. 
And  she,  who  saw  the  doubting  thoughts  within  97 

My  mind,  said :  ' '  The  first  circles  to  thy  sight 

Have  shown  the  Seraphim  and  Cherubim. 
So  swiftly  follow  they  their  bonds  to  make  100 

Themselves  like  to  the  Point  as  most  they  can ; 

They  can  in  the  measure  of  their  sight  sublime. 
Those  other  loves  that  round  about  them  go,  103 

Thrones  of  the  sight  of  God  are  called,  because 

Of  the  first  triad  they  were  set  as  bounds. 
And  thou  shouldst  know  that  the  delight  of  all  106 

Is  as  their  vision's  fathoming  of  truth. 


414  THE  DIVINE  COMEDY 

Wherein  the  intellect  of  all  finds  rest. 
By  this  is  to  be  seen  how  blessedness  109 

Is  founded  on  the  act  which  sees,  and  not 

On  that  which  loves,  which  follows  afterwards ; 
And  of  this  sight  the  measure  is  desert,  1^2 

Which  is  brought  forth  by  grace  and  by  good  will ; 

And  such  is  the  advance  from  grade  to  grade. 
The  following  triad,  which  likewise  puts  forth  US 

In  this  eternal  spring-time  bud  and  leaf. 

Which  no  nocturnal  Aries  despoils, 
Perpetually  do  Hosanna  sing  118 

With  triple  melodies  that  sound  in  three 

Orders  of  joy,  wherewith  they  are  three-fold. 
This  hierarchy  three  Divinities  121 

Compose :  first,  Dominations,  next 

Virtues,  and  third,  the  order  of  the  Powers. 
Then,  in  two  dances,  Principalities  124 

Revolve,  and  the  Archangels  next  the  last ; 

And  last  of  all,  the  Angelic  hosts  in  joy. 
All  of  these  orders  fix  their  gaze  on  high,  127 

And  downward  exercise  such  influence 

That  all  are  drawn,  and,  too,  all  draw  toward  God. 
And  Dionysius  with  such  desire  130 

Applied  himself  to  contemplate  these  orders, 

Distinguishing  their  names  as  I  have  done. 
But  later  Gregory  parted  from  him ;  133 

Wherefore,  as  soon  as  he  with  opened  eyes 

Was  in  this  heaven,  at  himself  he  smiled. 
I  would  not  have  thee  wonder,  if  on  earth  136 

A  mortal  have  proclaimed  such  secret  truth; 

For  he  disclosed  it  to  him,  who  had  seen 
On  high  much  of  these  circles*  truth  besides.*'  139 


PARADISO,  XXIX  415 


CANTO  XXIX 

When,  covered  by  the  Ram  and  by  the  Scales, 
Both  children  of  Latona  make  a  zone 
Of  the  horizon  at  one  time,  as  long 

As  from  the  zenith's  instant  balancing  4 

Till  both,  departing  from  that  girdle,  break 
The  equipoise,  changing  their  hemispheres, 

So  long,  a  smile  depicted  on  her  face,  7 

Did  Beatrice  keep  silence  as  she  watched 
The  Point  that  had  overcome  me,  fixedly. 

Then  she  began :  "  I  tell,  I  do  not  ask,  10 

What  thou  wouldst  hear,  for  I  have  seen  it  there  \ 
Where  every  Where  and  every  When  are  centred.! 

Not  for  the  acquisition  to  Himself  \        13 

Of  good, — which  is  not  possible, — but  that 
His  Splendor  might,  resplendent,  say :  I  AM ; 

In  His  eternity  outside  of  time,  ^6 

Outside  of  all  bounds  else,  as  pleased  Himself, 
The  Eternal  Love  in  new  loves  showed  Himself. 

Nor  did  He  lie  before  as  if  inert ;  '19 

For  not  before  nor  afterwards  went  on 
The  moving  o  'er  the  waters '  face  by  God.         '  \ 

Since  form  and  matter,  joined  and  simple,  went     \  22 

Forth  into  being  that  has  no  defect, 
Like  to  three  arrows  from  a  three-stringed  bow ;    \ 

And  as  in  glass,  amber  or  crystal  shines  25 

A  ray  in  such  wise  that  from  its  approach 
To  its  completeness  no  time  intervenes ; 

So  the  triform  effect  of  Him,  its  Lord,  28 

Rayed  into  being  all  at  once,  complete. 
Without  distinction  in  its  issuance. 

Order  was  concreated  and  was  fixed  ^1 


416  THE  DIVINE  COMEDY 

For  substances ;  and  those,  in  which  pure  act 

Was  brought  forth,  were  the  summit  of  the  world ; 
Pure  power  of  action  held  the  lowest  part ;  34 

Midway  this  potentiality  was  bound 

With  act  by  such  a  bond  as  ne'er  unbinds. 
Jerome  wrote  for  you  how  the  angels  were  ^^ 

Created  a  long  tract  of  centuries 

Ere  the  remaining  universe  was  made; 
But  by  the  writers  of  the  Holy  Spirit  ^ 

This  truth  is  written  in  many  passages, 

And  thou  wilt  note  it,  if  thou  give  good  heed ; 
And,  too,  the  reason  sees  somewhat  of  it,  ^3 

Which  could  not  grant  the  movers  should  exist 

So  long  and  not  effect  their  perfect  work. 
Now  knowest  thou  where  created  were  these  loves,  ^^ 

And  when,  and  how ;  so  that  extinguished  now 

In  thy  desire  already  are  three  flames. 
Nor  could  one  come  in  counting  to  a  score  *® 

As  quickly  as  of  the  Angel  host  a  part 

Disturbed  the  lowest  of  your  elements. 
The  rest  remained ;  and  it  began  that  art  52 

Which  thou  beholdest,  with  so  great  delight 

That  never  from  their  circling  do  they  cease. 
And  the  beginning  of  the  fall  was  that  55 

Accursed  haughtiness  of  him,  whom  thou 

Hast  seen  with  all  the  weights  of  the  world  compressed. 
Those  whom  thou  seest  here  in  lowliness  58 

Confessed  themselves  as  from  that  Goodness  sprung, 

Which  had  made  them  for  so  great  knowledge  apt ; 
Hence  was  their  vision  lifted  up  by  grace  ^1 

Illuminating  and  their  merit  so 

That  they  possess  a  full  and  steadfast  will. 
I  would  not  have  thee  doubtful,  but  assured,  ^ 

To  receive  grace  is  meritorious 


PARADISO,  XXIX  417 

As  the  affection  opens  unto  it. 
Henceforth,  if  my  words  have  been  gathered  in,  67 

Regarding  this  consistory  thou  mayst 

Contemplate  much,  needing  no  other  aid. 
But  since  men  teach  through  your  schools  on  the  earth       "^^ 

That  such  is  the  angelic  nature  that 

It  understands,  and  recollects,  and  wills, 
I  will  speak  further  so  that  thou  mayst  see  73 

In  purity  the  truth,  down  there  confused 

Through  their  equivocation  as  they  teach. 
Since  they  were  gladdened  by  the  face  of  God,  76 

These  Substances  have  never  turned  aside 

Their  sight  from  it,  from  which  is  nothing  hid; 
So  have  not  vision  that  may  be  cut  off  79 

By  a  new  object ;  hence  there  is  no  need 

By  a  divided  concept  to  recall. 
So  that  down  there  men  dream  w^hen  not  asleep,  82 

Believing  and  believing  not  truth  told, 

But  in  the  one  is  more  fault  and  more  shame. 
Ye  go  not  onward  by  one  path  below,  85 

Philosophizing;  fondness  for  display 

And  thinking  thereupon  transport  you  so. 
And  yet  this,  here  on  high,  is  borne  with  less  88 

Of  indignation  than  when  men  reject. 

Or  when  they  wrest,  the  written  Word  of  God. 
They  think  not  there  what  is  the  cost  of  blood  91 

To  sow  it  in  the  world,  and  how  he  pleases 

Who  keeps  close  by  it  in  humility. 
To  make  display  strives  every  one,  and  makes  94 

His  own  inventions,  and  these  are  the  themes 

Of  preachers,  and  the  Gospel  is  not  heard. 
One  says  that  at  Christ's  passion,  turning  back,  97 

The  moon  had  interposed  herself,  and  thus 

The  light  was  not  cast  downward  from  the  sun ; 


418  THE  DIVINE  COMEDY 

Another,  that  the  light  hid  of  itself;  100 

Hence  to  the  Spaniards  and  the  Indians, 

As  to  the  Jews,  such  an  eclipse  was  true. 
Florence  has  not  so  many  Lapi  and  Bindi  103 

As  fables  like  to  these,  that  the  year  through 

Are  cried  out  from  the  pulpits  on  all  sides ; 
So  that  the  poor  sheep,  who  are  ignorant,  106 

Return  from  pasture  fed  upon  the  wind; 

But  not  to  see  the  harm  absolves  them  not. 
Christ  did  not  say  to  His  first  company :  109 

*Go  and  preach  idle  tales  unto  the  world,' 

But  gave  them  a  foundation  that  was  true ; 
And  this  alone  was  uttered  by  their  mouths,  112 

So  that  to  fight  for  kindling  of  the  faith 

They  made  the  Gospel  to  be  shield  and  lance. 
Now  they  go  forth  with  jests  and  clownishness  n^ 

To  preach,  and  only  that  the  laugh  be  good, 

The  cowl  puffs  out,  and  more  is  not  required ; 
But  such  a  bird  is  nesting  in  the  hood,  118 

That,  if  the  people  saw  it,  they  would  see 

In  what  a  pardoning  they  have  confidence ; 
Wherefore  has  folly  grown  so  great  on  earth  121 

That  without  proof  of  any  evidence, 

At  any  promise  made  would  men  collect. 
Saint  Anthony  fattens  his  pig  on  this,  124 

And  others  also  who  are  far  more  pigs. 

Paying  with  money  that  has  not  the  stamp. 
But  as  we  have  digressed  enough,  turn  back  127 

Thine  eyes  forthwith  toward  the  straight  highway, 

So  that  the  path  be  shortened  with  the  time. 
This  nature  mounts  up  so  excessively  130 

In  number  that  there  never  yet  was  speech 

Nor  mortal  concept  that  could  go  so  far. 
And  if  thou  note  that  which  has  been  revealed  133 


PARADISO,  XXX  419 

By  Daniel,  thou  wilt  see  that  he  hides 

A  fixed  number  in  his  myriads. 
The  Primal  Light  irradiates  it  all  136 

And  is  received  in  it  by  modes  as  many 

As  are  the  splendors  with  which  It  is  paired ; 
Hence,  as  affection  follows  on  the  act  139 

•    Conceiving,  so  the  sweetness  of  love  glows 

Diversely  in  this  nature  and  is  warm. 
Behold  of  the  Eternal  Goodness  now  142 

The  height  and  breadth  since  It  has  made  Itself 

So  many  mirrors,  in  which  it  is  broken, 
One  in  Itself  remaining,  as  before. ' '  145 


CANTO  XXX 

Distant  six  thousand  miles  perchance  from  us 
Is  glowing  the  sixth  hour,  and  this  world  now 
Bending  its  shadow  toward  the  level  bed. 

When  the  mid-heaven,  deep  to  us,  begins  4 

To  take  on  such  a  change  that  some  one  star 
Loses  its  semblance  at  this  depth  below ; 

And  as  the  brightest  handmaid  of  the  sun  7 

Comes  further  on,  so  heaven  shuts  itself 
From  light  to  light  even  to  that  most  fair; 

Not  otherwise  the  triumph  which  disports  10 

Ever  about  the  Point  which  vanquished  me, 
Seeming  enclosed  by  that  enclosed  by  It, 

Little  by  little  to  my  sight  was  quenched ;  13 

So  that  to  turn  my  eyes  to  Beatrice 
I  was  by  seeing  naught,  and  love,  constrained. 

If  whate  'er  hitherto  is  said  of  her  16 

Were  all  included  in  a  single  praise. 
That  praise  were  slight  to  fill  the  present  need. 


THE  DnnXE  COMEDY 


Tlie  Keanty  tltat  I  saw  tninwiMli  the  bonds  ^ 

Xot  ool?*  of  ounetrcBs  bvt  I  asn  sore 
Its  llaikiH>  cmHj  can  agor  it  «1L 

3iM^  tlun  did  e'er  tke  eras  of  kis  tlwiBe 

Cooeie  or  tra^  writer  oivrvMte; 
For.  » tke  SOB  to  tW  aMHt  qnrrenii^  aght.  ^ 

Eivii » tke  noMiy  of  tibat  sweet  snfle 

TikiMS  froB  a^r  intelket  its  xeiy  adL 
Fron  tiK  finl  di^r  wlwii  in  tbe  li£e  on  Mitb  » 

I  looked  iqMMi  k«r  £we  TBmtQ  tkis  agkt, 

Xaoi^t  kas  cut  off  aqr  song  fipoaa  foDoviiig. 
But  DOW  I  am  cooqMlkd  to  ceaae  koieeifortk  ^ 

From  fidkywiB^  ker  kwDdty  in  laj  Terae, 

AseiYfy  artBt  at  kis 
Ske.  of  a  quality  tkat  I 

To  gNOter  tkan  a^  tnnapetli  kenldins. 

Wkkk  kn^  its  ardnooB  BtttUr  to  a  ctoae, 
liHtk  net  and  nttisanee  of  a  aeakias  guide 

Began  again:  ^'We  kaii^  now  isoed  from 

Tke  greatest  bodtjr.  to  iMne  Ugkt.  tks  keaTn; 
Ugkt  intefleetnal  and  fall  of  knv. 

Lo^Y  of  trae  good  and  foD  of  jov^a  joy 

Tramrendii^  eTwy  sm^ej^sR.    Here  skah  tkon 
BekoldtkeoBeandtkeotk«^soldfeMy 


OfP^india^;oneintke 

Tkat  tkon  dkiit  kiok  on  at  tke  Judgment  D^." 

Eiyn  as  a  sodden  flaik  of  ligktning  roots 
TVf  simits  of  tke  sigkt.  so  tkat  it  ckecfci 
TVe  strongMt  oti^jects''  netion  on  tke  ej^: 

So  roond  aboot  me  skone  a  Tiwid  Ugkt. 
And  left  me  swatked  in  its  cflUgencx 
Witk  snek  a  reiL  tkat  nangkt  appcnred  to  me. 

''Eiw  tke  Lof^  wkkk  gipet  tkis  keo^en  Ml 


PARADISO,  XXX  421 

With  such  a  greeting  welcomes  to  itself, 

To  make  the  candle  fitted  for  its  flame." 
No  sooner  had  these  brief  words  come  within  55 

My  being,  than  I  understood  that  I 

Was  rising  in  excess  of  power  of  mine ; 
And  with  new  vision  I  rekindled  me,  58 

So  that  no  light  has  such  intensity 

That  my  eyes  had  not  power  to  withstand. 
And  I  beheld  a  river  formed  of  light,  ^ 

Glowing  effulgently,  between  two  banks 

Painted  with  colors  of  a  wondrous  spring. 
From  such  a  stream  were  issuing  living  sparks,  ^ 

And  on  all  sides  were  settling  on  the  flowers 

That  were  as  rubies  compassed  round  with  gold ; 
Then  with  the  odors  all  inebriate  67 

Would  sink  themselves  within  the  marvelous  flood. 

And  if  one  entered  came  another  forth. 
*  *  The  high  desire  that  burns  and  urges  thee  7® 

Now  to  have  knowledge  of  what  thou  dost  see, 

Pleases  me  all  the  more,  the  more  it  swells ; 
But  thou  must  needs  drink  of  this  water  ere  ^ 

So  great  a  thirst  be  satisfied  in  thee." 

Thus  spoke  she  who  was  of  my  eyes  the  Sun ; 
Then  said :  ' '  The  river  and  the  topazes  76 

That  enter  and  come  forth,  the  smiling  flowers, 

Are  of  their  truth  but  shaded  prophecies; 
Not  that  these  things  themselves  are  hard  to  know ;  ^^ 

But  there  is  a  defect  on  thiue  own  part, 

That  thou  not  yet  hast  such  exalted  sight." 
There  is  no  babe  that  springs  so  suddenly  ^ 

With  face  toward  the  milk,  if  he  awake 

Much  later  than  his  wont,  as  I  did  then, 
To  make  still  better  mirrors  of  my  eyes,  *5 

By  stooping  toward  the  water  that  flows  down 


422  THE  DIVINE  COMEDY 

In  order  that  man  be  perfected  there. 
And  when  the  eaves  of  my  eyelashes  drank  88 

Thereof,  that  moment  it  appeared  to  me 

From  a  long  form  to  have  become  a  round. 
Then  like  to  those  who  have  been  under  masks,  91 

"Who  seem  not  as  at  first  if  they  lay  off 

The  form  not  theirs  in  which  they  disappeared ; 
Thus  changed  for  me  to  greater  festival  94 

The  flowers  and  the  sparks,  so  that  I  saw 

Both  Courts  of  Heaven  there  made  manifest. 
0  Splendor  of  God,  by  help  of  which  I  saw  97 

The  exalted  triumph  of  the  realm  of  truth, 

Give  me  the  power  to  tell  how  I  saw ! 
A  light  is  thereabove  which  visible  100 

Makes  the  Creator  to  that  creature's  sight 

Which  has  its  peace  only  in  seeing  Him ; 
And  it  spreads  out  in  figure  circular  103 

So  far  and  wide,  that  its  circumference 

"Would  be  too  large  a  girdle  for  the  sun. 
Its  whole  appearance  is  a  ray,  that  falls  106 

Upon  the  summit  of  the  First  Moved  Heaven, 

Which  thence  receives  its  light  and  potency. 
And  as  a  hill  in  water  at  its  base  109 

Mirrors  itself,  as  if  to  see  itself 

Adorned,  when  it  is  rich  in  green  and  flowers, 
So  mirrored,  on  more  than  a  thousand  seats  1^2 

On  every  side  above  the  light  I  saw 

All  those  of  us  who  had  returned  on  high. 
And  if  the  lowest  rank  receives  a  light  115 

So  great  within  itself,  how  great  the  breadth 

Of  this  rose  in  the  outmost  of  its  leaves  1 
My  vision  in  the  width  and  in  the  height  118 

Lost  not  itself,  but  comprehended  all 

That  joy  in  quantity  and  quality. 


PARADISO,  XXXT  423 

There  near  and  far  add  not  nor  take  away,  121 

For  where  God  governs  with  immediate  rule, 
The  law  of  nature  is  not  relevant. 

Into  the  yellow  of  the  eternal  rose,  124 

Which  spreads  out,  tier  on  tier,  with  redolence 
Of  praise  to  the  Sun  that  makes  perpetual  spring, 

Did  Beatrice  draw  me  who  was  as  one  127 

Silent  and  fain  to  speak,  and  said :  ' '  Behold 
Of  the  white  robes  how  great  the  company ! 

Behold  our  city's  circuit,  oh,  how  vast!  l^^ 

Behold  our  benches  now  so  full  that  few 
Are  they  who  are  henceforward  lacking  here. 

On  that  great  seat,  above  which  is  the  crown  133 

Already  placed,  on  which  thine  eyes  are  fixed, 
Ere  thou  shalt  banquet  at  this  wedding-feast, 

Shall  sit  the  soul,  on  earth  imperial  first,  136 

Of  lofty  Henry,  who  to  Italy 
Shall  come  as  leader  ere  she  is  prepared. 

The  blind  cupidity  bewitching  you  139 

Has  made  you  like  the  little  child,  who  dies 
Of  hungering  and  who  drives  away  the  nurse ; 

And  one  shall  then  be  perfect  in  the  court  1^2 

Divine,  who  openly  dr  covertly 
"Will  not  go  on  with  him  along  one  road ; 

But  shall  not  long  be  then  endured  by  God  1^5 

In  the  holy  office,  soon  to  be  thrust  down 
Where  Simon  Magus  is  for  his  deserts 

And  put  him  of  Alagna  lower  still. ' ' 

CANTO  XXXI 

In  form  then  of  a  rose  of  gleaming  white 
Was  shown  to  me  the  sainted  soldiery, 
Which  in  His  blood  Christ  made  to  be  His  bride. 


148 


424  THE  DIVINE  COMEDY 

But  the  other  host,  which,  flying,  sees  and  sings  ^ 

The  glory  of  the  One  enamouring  it. 

And,  too,  the  goodness  which  made  it  so  great. 
Even  as  a  swarm  of  bees,  that  now  will  sink  7 

Within  the  flowers,  and  now  return  to  where 

Their  labor  has  become  a  savor  sweet, 
Into  the  great  flower  sank,  which  is  adorned  ^0 

With  leaves  so  many,  thence  to  rise  again 

To  where  their  love  eternally  sojourns. 
They  had  their  faces  all  of  living  flame,  ^^ 

Their  wings  were  golden,  and  the  rest  so  white 

That  never  snow  attains  to  that  degree. 
When  they  went  down  within  the  flower  from  rank  ^^ 

To  rank  they  gave  that  peace  and  ardor  forth 

Which  they  had  gained  as  they  had  fanned  their  sides. 
Nor  did  the  interposing  of  so  great  1^ 

A  flying  plenitude  between  what  was 

Above  it  and  the  flower  impede  the  sight 
And  splendor,  for  the  light  divine  goes  through  22 

The  world  in  measure  of  its  worthiness, 

And  so,  that  naught  can  be  an  obstacle. 
This  realm,  secure  and  full  of  joy,  and  thronged  25 

With  those  of  ancient  and  of  recent  time. 

Had  sight  and  love  fixed  wholly  on  one  mark. 
0  Trinal  Light,  which  in  a  single  star  28 

Dost  sparkle  on  their  sight,  imparting  thus 

Thy  peace,  look  down  upon  our  tempest  here ! 
If  the  barbarians,  who  come  from  parts  ^1 

That  are  each  day  by  Helice  o  'erspread. 

Revolving  with  her  son  so  fondly  loved, 
Were  filled  with  stupefaction  when  they  saw  '* 

Rome  and  her  lofty  works,  when  Lateran 

Was  sovereign  above  all  mortal  things, 
I,  who  from  human  things  to  those  divine,  ^^ 


PARADISO,  XXXI  425 


From  those  of  time  unto  eternity, 

From  Florence  to  a  people  just  and  sane, 
Had  come,  what  wonder  must  have  filled  me  then !  ^0 

Truly  with  that  and  with  my  joy  I  felt 

Delight  in  hearing  not  and  standing  mute. 
And  even  as  a  pilgrim  who  is  pleased  43 

With  gazing  in  the  temple  of  his  vow. 

And  hopes  that  he  may  yet  tell  how  it  was, 
So  through  the  living  light  with  wandering  gaze  46 

I  cast  my  eyes  about  the  ranks,  now  up, 

Now  downward,  and  now  sweeping  round  again. 
Faces  I  saw  persuasive  in  their  love,  49 

Embellished  by  Another's  light,  and  smiles 

Their  own,  and  acts  with  every  grace  adorned. 
The  form  of  Paradise  in  general  52 

My  look  had  now  included  as  a  whole 

And  on  no  single  part  yet  fixed  the  sight ; 
And  I  was  turning  with  rekindled  wish  55 

To  seek  my  Lady's  answer  as  to  things 

Concerning  which  my  mind  was  in  suspense. 
One  thing  I  meant,  another  answered  me;  58 

For  thinking  to  see  Beatrice,  I  saw 

An  aged  man,  as  those  in  glory,  robed. 
His  eyes  and  cheeks  were  overspread  with  joy  61 

Benignant,  and  his  mien  affectionate. 

Such  as  befits  a  father's  tenderness. 
And  :  ' 'Where  is  she  ? "  I  uttered  suddenly.  64 

Whereon  he  said :  '  *  To  terminate  thy  longing 

Did  Beatrice  move  me  to  leave  my  place; 
To  the  third  circle  from  the  highest  rank  67 

If  thou  look  up,  thou  mayst  again  see  her 

Upon  the  throne  that  she  has  merited." 
Without  replying  I  raised  up  my  eyes,  ^^ 

And  saw  her  as  she  made  herself  a  crown. 


426  THE  DIVINE  COMEDY 

Reflecting  from  herself  the  eternal  rays. 
From  that  place  of  the  highest  thundering  73 

No  eye  of  mortal  is  so  far  removed, 

In  whatsoever  sea  it  deepest  sinks, 
As  was  my  vision  there  from  Beatrice ;  76 

But  it  was  naught  to  me,  her  image  so 

Came  down  to  me  unblurred  by  aught  between. 
**0  Lady,  thou  in  whom  my  hope  is  strong,  79 

And  who  for  my  salvation  didst  endure 

To  leave  in  hell  the  footsteps  of  thy  feet ; 
Of  things  so  many  that  my  eyes  have  seen,  82 

As  through  the  power  and  goodness  that  are  thine 

I  recognize  the  grace  and  virtue  come. 
From  servitude  to  liberty  hast  thou  85 

Led  me,  by  all  those  paths,  by  all  the  modes 

That  thou  hadst  in  thy  power  to  this  end. 
What  thou  hast  greatly  wrought  in  me,  protect,  8S 

So  that  my  soul,  which  thou  hast  rendered  whole, 

Be  from  this  body  loosed  well-pleasing  thee.'* 
Thus  I  had  prayed ;  and  she,  so  far  away  ^^ 

As  it  appeared,  smiled  as  she  looked  at  me ; 

Thereon  she  turned  to  the  Eternal  Fount. 
Then  said  to  me  the  aged  saint:  ''That  thou  ^* 

Mayst  perfectly  attain  thy  journey's  end, 

Whereunto  prayer  and  holy  love  sent  me, 
Fly  through  this  garden  with  thine  eyes,  for  thus  ^7 

To  look  upon  it  will  prepare  thy  sight 

For  rising  higher  through  the  ray  divine. 
The  Queen  of  Heaven,  then,  for  whom  I  burn  lOO 

Wholly  with  love,  will  grant  us  every  grace, 

For  I  am  Bernard,  faithful  unto  her.** 
Like  him,  who  from  Croatia,  it  may  be,  103 

Has  come  to  look  on  our  Veronica, 

And,  never  sated  with  its  ancient  fame, 


PARADISO,  XXXI  427 

Says  in  his  thought,  as  long  as  it  is  shown :  106 

' '  My  Lord  Christ  Jesus,  very  God,  was  then 
Your  countenance  in  fashion  like  to  this?'' 

Even  such  was  I,  viewing  the  fervency  109 

Of  charity  in  him,  who  in  this  world 
Through  contemplation  tasted  of  that  peace. 

**0  son  of  grace,  this  state  of  happiness,"  112 

Thus  he  began,  ' '  will  not  be  known  to  thee 
Keeping  thy  gaze  but  downward  on  this  deep ; 

But  view  the  circles,  to  the  most  remote,  115 

Until  thou  see  enthroned  the  Queen,  of  whom 
This  is  the  subject  and  devoted  realm." 

I  raised  my  eyes,  and  as  at  morning-tide  118 

The  regions  of  the  eastern  sky  surpass 
In  light  that  part  in  which  the  sun  goes  down, 

So,  as  if  rising  from  a  valley  up  121 

To  mountain  height,  my  eyes  beheld  a  part 
On  the  utmost  verge  outglow  all  else  around ; 

And  as,  where  we  await  the  chariot-pole  124 

That  Phaethon  guided  ill,  it  brightest  flames, 
And  on  this  side  and  that  the  light  grows  less, 

Thus,  vividly  that  peaceful  oriflamme  127 

Shone  at  the  middle  point,  and  on  each  side 
In  equal  mode  displayed  a  lessened  flame. 

And  at  that  middle  point  with  wings  outspread  1^0 

More  than  a  thousand  angels  I  beheld, 
Diversely  bright  and  skilled,  make  festival. 

I  saw  there  on  their  sports  and  on  their  songs  1^3 

Smiling  a  beauty,  that  was  happiness 
"Within  the  eyes  of  all  the  other  saints. 

And,  if  I  had  in  utterance  such  wealth  1^6 

As  in  imagining,  I  should  not  dare 
To  essay  the  least  of  her  delightfulQess. 

Bernard,  beholding  that  my  eyes  were  fixed  l^^ 


428  THE  DIVINE  COMEDY 

Intently  on  the  glow  that  glowed  for  him, 
With  such  affection  turned  his  eyes  to  her 
As  made  my  own  to  gaze  more  ardently.  142 

CANTO  XXXII 

With  his  affection  set  on  his  delight, 

That  conteraplator,  glad,  assumed  the  task 

Of  teacher,  and  began  these  holy  words : 
*  *  The  wound  that  Mary  closed,  anointing  it,  * 

That  one,  there  at  her  feet,  so  beautiful. 

Is  she  who  opened  it,  and  gave  the  thrust. 
Below  her,  in  the  order  that  is  made  7 

By  the  third  seats,  sits  Rachel,  and  along 

With  her  is  Beatrice,  as  thou  mayst  see. 
Sarah,  Rebecca,  Judith,  and  the  one,  1^ 

Great-grandmother  of  him  who  sang,  and  said 

In  grief  for  sinning:  ^Miserere  mei/ 
Thou  mayst  behold  thus  downward,  rank  on  rank  13 

Arranged,  as  with  the  name  of  each  I  go 

Downward  throughout  the  rose  from  leaf  to  leaf; 
And  downward  from  the  seventh  row,  even  as  1^ 

Down  to  itself,  the  Hebrew  women  follow, 

Dividing  all  the  tresses  of  the  flower; 
Because  according  to  the  look  that  faith  1^ 

Cast  upon  Christ,  these  are  the  wall  which  serves 

As  separation  of  the  sacred  stairs. 
On  this  side  where  the  flower  is  mature  22 

With  all  its  leaves,  are  seen  the  seats  of  those 

Who  had  a  faith  in  Christ  who  was  to  come. 
On  the  other  side,  where  unfilled  spaces  break  25 

The  semicircles,  is  the  place  of  those 

Whose  faces  turned  to  Christ  already  come. 
And  as  upon  this  side  the  glorious  seat  *® 


PARADISO,  XXXII  429 

Of  Heaven's  Lady  and  the  other  seats 

Below  it  form  so  great  a  boundary, 
So,  opposite,  the  seat  of  the  great  John  31 

Who,  holy  ever,  endured  the  wilderness 

And  martyrdom,  and  then  for  two  years  Hell, 
And,  lower,  thus  allotted  to  divide  34 

Are  Francis,  Benedict,  and  Augustine, 

And  others  hither  down  from  rank  to  rank. 
Consider  now  the  deep  foresight  of  God,  37 

For  the  one  and  the  other  aspect  of  the  faith 

Shall  join  to  fill  this  garden  equally ; 
And  know  that  downward  from  the  rank,  which  strikes      40 

Midway  across  the  two  dividing  lines, 

They  sit  not  there  through  merit  of  their  own, 
But  through  another's,  on  conditions  fixed;  43 

Because  all  these  are  spirits  loosed  from  bonds 

Before  they  had  true  powers  to  elect. 
This  by  their  faces  and  their  voices  too  46 

Like  children's  canst  thou  clearly  understand. 

If  thou  but  look  and  listen  well  to  them. 
Thou,  doubting  now,  keepst  silent  in  thy  doubt ;  49 

But  I  will  loose  for  thee  the  powerful  bond 

With  which  thy  subtle  thoughts  are  binding  thee. 
Within  this  kingdom's  amplitude  there  is  52 

No  place  for  aught  that  is  concerned  with  chance, 

As,  too,  for  sadness,  thirst  or  hunger,  none ; 
For  by  eternal  law  is  whatsoe'er  55 

Thou  seest  here  established  so  that  all 

As  ring  to  finger  justly  corresponds. 
And  for  this  reason  this  folk,  hastened  on  58 

To  true  life,  is  not  sine  causa  here 

Among  themselves  more  excellent  and  less. 
The  King,  through  whom  this  kingdom  has  repose  ^^ 

In  such  great  love  and  in  such  great  delight. 


430  THE  DIVINE  COMEDY 

There  is  no  will  to  dare  for  aught  beside, 
Creating  all  minds  in  His  own  glad  sight,  W 

Endows  them  as  it  pleases  Him  with  grace 

Diversely ;  and  here  let  the  fact  suflBce. 
And  this  the  Holy  Scripture  notes  for  you  *7 

Expressly  and  with  clearness  in  those  twins 

That  in  their  mother  had  their  anger  stirred. 
So,  following  the  color  of  the  hair  70 

Of  grace  like  that,  must  needs  the  highest  light 

Be  as  their  crown  according  to  their  worth. 
So,  only  in  first  keenness  differing,  73 

They  have  been  placed  in  stations  different. 

And  not  by  recompense  for  practices. 
To  win  salvation  in  the  early  times  76 

Accordingly,  along  with  innocence. 

Merely  the  faith  of  parents  was  enough. 
"With  the  first  ages  afterwards  complete,  79 

Through  circumcision  it  behoved  the  males 

To  gain  the  power  for  their  innocent  wings. 
But,  when  the  time  of  grace  had  supervened,  82 

Without  the  baptism,  perfect  now,  of  Christ, 

Such  innocence  was  held  back  there  below. 
Look  now  upon  the  face  which  bears  to  Christ  85 

The  nearest  likeness,  for  its  brightness  can 

Alone  prepare  thee  for  beholding  Christ.'* 
And  I  beheld  upon  her  raining  down  ^ 

So  great  a  joy,  borne  in  the  holy  minds 

Created  to  fly  through  that  altitude, 
That  whatsoever  I  had  seen  before  ®^ 

Bore  me  not  up  in  so  great  wondering, 

Nor  showed  to  me  such  likeness  unto  Gk)d. 
And  that  love,  which  had  first  descended  there,  •* 

Before  her  presence  had  spread  wide  his  wings, 

Singing,  **Ave  Maria,  gratia  plena.*' 


PARADISO,  XXXII  431 

The  blessed  court  responded  to  the  song  97 

Divine  on  every  side  in  such  a  wise 

That  every  countenance  grew  more  serene. 
^'0  holy  Father,  who  for  me  endurest  100 

To  be  in  this  deep,  leaving  the  sweet  place 

In  which  thou  sittest  by  eternal  lot, 
Who  is  that  angel,  who  looks  with  such  joy  103 

Into  the  eyes  of  her,  who  is  our  Queen, 

And  so  enamoured  that  he  seems  of  fire?" 
Thus  I  sought  out  the  teaching  once  again  106 

Of  him  who  grew  through  Mary  beautiful, 

As  does  the  star  of  morning  from  the  sun. 
And  he  to  me :  ''Such  confidence  and  grace  109 

As  can  be  in  an  Angel  and  a  soul 

Are  all  in  him,  and  we  would  have  it  so. 
For  he  is  that  one  who  bore  down  the  palm  112 

To  Mary  when  the  Son  of  God  was  pleased 

To  take  on  Him  the  burden  of  our  load. 
But  come  now  with  thine  eyes,  and  in  this  way  n^ 

Of  this  most  just  and  pious  empire  note 

The  great  patricians  as  I  speak  of  them. 
Those  two  who  there  on  high  sit  happiest,  118 

For  being  nearest  to  the  Empress  placed. 

Are  of  this  rose  two  roots,  as  one  may  say. 
He  who  upon  the  left  is  near  to  her  121 

That  Father  is  through  whose  most  daring  taste 

The  human  race  tastes  so  great  bitterness. 
Upon  the  right  that  Father  of  old  time  124 

Behold,  of  Holy  Church,  unto  whom  Christ 

The  keys  entrusted  of  this  lovely  flower. 
And  he  who  had,  before  he  came  to  die,  127 

Seen  all  the  grievous  days  of  the  fair  Bride 

That  with  the  spear  and  with  the  nails  was  won. 
Sits  there  beside  him ;  at  his  other  hand  130 


432  THE  DIVINE  COMEDY 

That  leader  rests,  *neath  whom  the  thankless  folk 
Lived  upon  manna,  fickle  and  perverse. 

Opposite  Peter  see  where  Anna  sits,  133 

So  well  contented,  gazing  on  her  child. 
And  sings  Hosanna  and  moves  not  her  eyes. 

And  seated  opposite  the  eldest  Sire  136 

Lucia,  at  whose  call  thy  Lady  went, 
When  to  rush  headlong  thou  didst  bend  thy  brow. 

But  as  for  thee  the  time  of  slumber  flies,  139 

Here  we  will  stop, — as  a  wise  tailor  does. 
Who  makes  the  gown  according  to  his  cloth, — 

And  will  direct  our  eyes  to  the  First  Love  1^ 

That  thou,  looking  toward  Him,  mayst  penetrate 
As  far  through  His  effulgence  as  thou  canst. 

But,  lest  perchance  by  moving  wings  of  thine,  ^^5 

Thou  shouldst  go  backward  thinking  to  advance, 
There  is  a  need  of  grace  obtained  by  prayer, 

Of  grace  from  her  who  can  give  aid  to  thee ;  1*3 

And  with  affection  do  thou  follow  me 
So  that  thy  heart  depart  not  from  my  words.'* 

And  he  began  this  holy  orison.  i^l 


CANTO  XXXIII 

**0  Virgin  Mother,  daughter  of  thy  Son, 
Lowly,  and  higher  than  all  creatures  raised. 
Term  by  eternal  counsel  fixed  upon. 

Thou  art  she  who  didst  so  ennoble  man, 
That  even  He  who  had  created  him 
To  be  Himself  his  creature  disdained  not. 

Within  thy  womb  rekindled  was  the  love, 
By  virtue  of  whose  heat  this  flower  thus 
Is  blossoming  in  the  eternal  peace. 


PARADISO,  XXXIII  433 

Here  thou  art  unto  us  a  noon-day  torch  10 

Of  charity,  and  among  mortal  men 

Below,  thou  art  a  living  fount  of  hope. 
Lady,  thou  art  so  great  and  so  prevailest,  13 

That  who  seeks  grace  without  recourse  to  thee, 

Would  have  his  wish  fly  upward  without  wings. 
Thy  loving-kindness  succors  not  alone  16 

Him  who  is  seeking  it,  but  many  times 

Freely  anticipates  the  very  prayer. 
In  thee  is  mercy,  pity  is  in  thee,  1^ 

In  thee  magnificence,  whatever  good 

Is  in  created  being  joins  in  thee. 
Now  this  man,  who  has  through  the  universe  22 

From  nethermost  abyss  up  to  this  place 

Beheld  the  lives  of  spirits  one  by  one, 
Supplicates  thee,  of  grace,  for  power  such  25 

That  he  may  with  his  eyes  lift  himself  up 

Higher  toward  the  Final  Blessedness. 
And  I,  who  ne  'er  for  my  own  vision  burned  28 

More  than  I  do  for  his,  put  forth  to  thee 

All  of  my  prayers,  and  pray  they  fall  not  short. 
That  with  thy  prayers  thou  wouldst  disperse  for  him  31 

All  clouds  of  his  mortality,  so  that 

The  Supreme  Bliss  may  be  revealed  to  him. 
I  pray  thee,  too,  0  Queen,  who  canst  effect  34 

That  which  thou  wilt,  keep  his  affections  sound 

After  so  great  a  vision  has  been  his. 
Let  thy  care  stay  his  human  impulses ;  37 

Behold  how  Beatrice,  and  all  the  Blest 

Are  for  my  prayers  folding  their  hands  to  thee !  * ' 
The  eyes  that  God  both  loves  and  venerates,  40 

Fixed  upon  him  who  prayed,  displayed  to  us 

How  dear  to  her  are  prayers  of  the  devout. 
Then  turned  they  unto  the  Eternal  Light,  43 


434  THE  DIVINE  COMEDY 

To  which,  as  it  must  be  believed,  no  eye 

So  clear  of  any  creature  enters  in. 
And  I,  who  to  the  end  of  all  desires  *S 

Was  drawing  near,  even  as  I  should,  perceived 

The  ardor  of  my  longing  come  to  end. 
And  Bernard  made  a  sign  to  me,  and  smiled,  ^^ 

That  my  gaze  should  be  upward ;  but  I  was 

Already  of  myself  such  as  he  wished ; 
For  more  and  more  my  sight,  becoming  pure,  52 

Was  entering  the  very  radiance 

Of  the  exalted  Light,  true  in  itself. 
Thenceforward  was  my  vision's  power  increased  55 

Beyond  our  speech,  which  fails  at  such  a  sight; 

And  fails  the  memory  at  such  excess. 
Such  as  he  is,  who  in  his  dream  beholds  58 

And,  following  the  dream,  the  passion  stays 

Imprinted,  but  naught  else  comes  back  to  mind, 
Even  such  am  I,  for  utterly,  as  it  were,  ^^ 

My  vision  ends,  while  for  me  yet  distils 

Within  my  heart  the  sweetness  bom  of  it. 
Thus  is  the  snow  beneath  the  sun  unsealed,  ^^ 

Thus,  on  the  light  leaves  by  the  Sibyl  written, 

The  oracles  were  lost  before  the  wind. 

0  Light  Supreme,  which  art  so  high  upraised  ^^ 
Above  our  mortal  thoughts,  lend  to  my  mind 

A  little  of  what  Thou  didst  then  appear, 
And  grant  my  tongue  to  have  so  much  of  power,  70 

That  it  may  leave  to  those  who  are  to  come 

Of  Glory  that  is  Thine  one  single  spark; 
If  it  return  somewhat  to  memory,  73 

And  in  these  verses  sound  a  little  forth. 

More  of  Thy  victory  shall  be  conceived. 

1  think  by  the  keenness  of  the  living  ray  76 
Which  I  endured,  that  I  had  been  undone, 


PARADISO,  XXXIII  435 

If  my  eyes  had  been  turned  away  from  it. 
And  I  remember  that  I  was  for  this  79 

The  bolder  to  endure,  so  much  that  I 
Conjoined  my  gaze  with  the  Unbounded  Power. 

0  Grace  abundant,  whereby  I  presumed  82 
To  fix  my  look  through  the  Eternal  Light 

So  long,  that  I  consumed  my  sight  thereon ! 

1  saw  within  its  depths  enclosed  all  that,  85 
Which  in  the  universe  is  scattered  leaves. 

With  love  as  in  a  single  volume  bound; 
Substance  and  accidents  and  properties  88 

Fused  as  it  were  together  in  such  wise. 

That  what  I  speak  of  is  one  simple  Light. 
That  I  beheld  the  universal  form  ^1 

Of  this  knot  I  believe,  because  I  feel 

My  joy  expanding  as  I  speak  of  this. 
One  single  instant  robs  my  memory  more  94 

Than  five  and  twenty  centuries  from  the  emprise 

When  Argo's  shadow  left  Neptune  amazed. 
So  was  my  mind  completely  in  suspense,  97 

Fixedly  gazing,  motionless,  intent. 

And  ever  with  its  gazing  more  on  fire. 
And  such  before  that  Light  does  one  become,  190 

It  is  impossible  one  e'er  consent 

To  turn  away  from  it  to  view  aught  else ; 
Because  the  good,  the  object  of  the  will,  193 

Is  all  collected  there ;  outside  of  it 

That  is  defective  which  is  perfect  there. 
Henceforth,  briefer  shall  be  my  speech  of  that  196 

Which  I  remember  even,  than  a  child's. 

Who  bathes  his  tongue  still  at  his  mother's  breast. 
Not  that  more  than  one  single  semblance  was  199 

Within  the  Living  Light  on  which  I  gazed, 

Which  is  forever  such  as  it  has  been. 


436  THE  DIVINE  COMEDY 

But  through  my  sight  which  took  on  strength  in  me         ^^2 

Looking  thereon,  one  sole  appearance  seemed 

Transformed  to  me,  as  I  myself  was  changed. 
In  the  Exalted  Light's  profound  and  clear  ^'S 

Subsistence  there  appeared  to  me  three  rounds 

Of  colors  three,  and  in  dimension  one ; 
One  seemed  reflected  from  the  other  as  H8 

Iris  from  Iris,  and  the  third  seemed  fire. 

That  from  the  other  twain  breathes  equally. 
Oh,  how  far  short  is  speech,  and  oh,  how  weak  121 

For  my  conception,  which,  to  what  I  saw, 

Is  such,  to  call  it  little  is  not  meet. 
0  Light  Eternal,  that  alone  abidest  124 

Within  Thyself,  knowing  alone  Thyself, 

Self -known  and  knowing,  lovest  and  dost  smile ! 
That  circle,  which  appeared  to  be  in  Thee  127 

As  though  conceived  as  a  reflected  light, 

After  my  eyes  somewhat  had  viewed  it  round, 
Within  itself  with  color  of  its  own  130 

Seemed  to  be  painted  with  our  image  there ; 

Wherefore  my  sight  was  wholly  set  on  it. 
As  the  geometer,  who  wholly  sets  133 

Himself  to  square  the  circle,  and  finds  not 

By  thought  the  principle  of  which  he  is 
In  need,  even  such  was  I  at  this  new  sight.  136 

I  would  see  how  the  image  was  conformed 

To  the  circle,  and  how  there  it  had  its  place ; 
But  my  own  wings  were  not  for  this ;  except  139 

That  then  my  mind  was  smitten  by  a  flash 

Of  lightning,  wherein  what  it  longed  for  came. 
To  the  high  fantasy  here  power  failed;  142 

But  now  was  turning  my  desire  and  will, 

Like  to  a  wheel  that  evenly  is  moved, 
The  Love  that  moves  the  sun  and  the  other  stars.  1^5 


APPENDIX 


APPENDIX 

LATIN  IN  THE  DIVINE  COMEDY 


Inferno  : 

I  70 

XVIII  6 

XXI  42 

XXXIV  1 


PURGATORIO : 

II      46 
III       37 


V      24 
VII      83 


VIII       13 


IX     140 


sub  Julio     at  the  time  of  Julius  Caesar, 

suo  loco    in  its  due  place. 

ita    yes. 

Vexilla  regis  prodeunt  inferni  The 
banners  of  the  King  of  Hell  advance, 
words  adapted  from  the  hymn,  Vex- 
illa Regis  prodeunt;  Fulget  Crucis 
mysterium,  etc.,  written  by  Venantius 
Fortunatus  (530-609). 

In  exitu  Israel  de  E  gyp  to  When  Israel 
went  out  of  Egypt  (Psalm  CXIV.  1). 

quia  medieval  Latin  for  quod,  and 
meaning  scholastically  the  fact  that 
the  thing  is. 

Miserere    Have  mercy  (Psalm  LI.  1). 

Salve,  Regina  Hail,  Queen,  words  be- 
ginning an  antiphon  in  honor  of  the 
Virgin  Mary,  and  forming  part  of 
the  divine  office. 

Te  lucis  ante  Thee,  before  [the  close] 
of  light,  the  beginning  of  the  hymn, 
Te  lucis  ante  terminum. 

Te  Deum  laudamus  We  praise  Thee,  0 
God! 


440 


THE  DIVINE  COMEDY 


X 

40 

44 

XII 

110 

XIII 

29 

XV 

38 

XVI 

19 

XVII 

68 

XIX      50 


73 


XX 

XXII 

XXIII 

XXV 


99 


137 


136 


5-6 


11 


121 


128 


XXVII        8 


Ave    Hail. 

Ecce  ancilla  Dei    Behold  the  handmaid 

of  the  Lord  (Luke  I.  38). 
Beati  pauperes  spiritu    Blessed  are  the 

poor  in  spirit  (Matt.  V.  3). 
Vinum  non  habent     They  have  no  wine 

(John  II.  3). 
Beati     misericordes    Blessed    are     the 

merciful  (Matt.  V.  7). 
Agnus  Dei     The  Lamb  of  God. 
Beati  pacifici    Blessed  are   the  peace- 
makers (Matt.  V.  9). 
Qui   lugent     They   that  mourn    (Matt. 

V.  4). 
Adhaesit    pavimento    anima    mea    My 

soul  cleaveth  unto  the  dust   (Psalm 

CXIX.  25). 
Scias    quod    ego    fui    successor    Petri 

Know  that  I  was  a  successor  of  Peter. 
Neque    nubent     They    neither    marry 

(Matt.  XXII.  30). 
Gloria  in  excelsis  Deo     Glory  to  God  in 

the  highest  (Luke  II.  14). 
Beati  ....  sitiunt    Blessed  are  they 

which  do  thirst  (Matt.  V.  6,  in  part). 
Labia    mea,    Domine     0    Lord,    [open 

thou]  my  lips  (Psalm  LI.  15). 
Summae  Deus  clementiae     God  of  clem- 
ency   supreme,    words    beginning    a 

hymn  attributed  to  St.  Ambrose. 
Virum  non  cognosco    /  know  not  a  man 

(Luke  L  34). 
Beati    mundo   corde    Blessed   are    the 

pure  in  heart  (Matt.  V.  8). 


APPENDIX 


441 


XXVII      58 


XXVIII 
XXIX 


XXXI 

XXXIII 


80 


XXX      11 


17 


19 


21 


83 

84 

98 

1 


10-12 


Venite,  benedicti  Patris  mei     Come,  ye 

Messed  of  my  Father   (Matt.  XXV. 

34). 
Delectasti     Thou   hast   made   me   glad 

(PsalmXCIL4). 
Beati,     quorum     tecta     sunt     peccata 

Blessed    are    they    whose    sins    are 

covered  (Psalm  XXXII.  1,  adapted). 
Veni,  sponsa,   de  Libano     Come    [with 

me]  from  Lebanon,  my  spouse  (Song 

of  Solomon  IV.  8). 
ad  vocem  tanti  senis    at  the  voice  of  so 

great  an  elder, 
Benedictus,  qui  venis    Blessed  art  thou 

that  comest  (Matt.  XXI.  9,  adapted). 
Manibus  o  date  lilia  plenis     Oh,  give 

lilies  with  full   hands    (Aeneid  VI. 

884). 
In  te,  Domine,  speravi   In  thee,  0  Lord, 

do  I  put  my  trust  (Psalm  XXXI.  1). 
pedes  meos  my  feet  (Psalm  XXXI.  8). 
Asperges  me  Purge  me  (Psalm  LI.  7). 
Deus,    venerunt    gentes     0    God,    the 

heathen  are   come    (Psalm  LXXIX. 

1). 

Modicum,  et  non  videbitis  me,  Et 
iterum,  Modicum,  et  vos  videbitis  me 
A  little  while,  and  ye  shall  not  see 
me:  and  again,  a  little  while,  and  ye 
shall  see  me  (John  XVI.  16). 


Paradiso  : 

I      70    per  verba    in  words. 
Ill    121    Ave,  Maria    Bail,  Mary. 


442  THE  DIVINE  COMEDY 

IV    129     frustra    in  vain. 
VII        1-3      Osanno,  sanctus  Deus  Sabaoth, 
Superillustrans  claritate  tua 
Felices  ignes  horum  malachoth ! 
Hosanna,  holy  God  of  Sahaoth, 
Illumining  exceedingly  with  light 
From  Thee  the  happy  fires  of  these 
realms! 
85    tota    wholly. 
XI      62     Et  coram  patre    And  in  presence  of  his 

father. 
XII      92     decimas  qui  sunt  pauperum  Dei     tithes 

belonging  to  the  poor  of  God. 
XIII      98     necesse     [a]  necessary  [premise]. 

99    necesse     [a]  necessary  [conclusion]. 
100    si    est    dare    primum    motum    esse    if 
prime  motion  can  he  said  to  he. 
XV      28-31     0  sanguis  mens,  0  superinfusa 
Gratia  Dei,  sicut  tibi,  cui 
Bis  unquam  coeli  janua  reclusa? 
0   hlood  of  mine,   0   grace  of  God 

poured  forth 
Exceedingly!    To  whom,  as  unto  thee 
Was  ever  opened  twice  the  gate  of 
heaven f 
XVIII       91     Diligite   justitiam    Love  righteousness. 
93     qui  judicatis  terrain     ye  that  he  judges 
of   the   earth    (Wisdom   of   Solomon 
I.  1). 
XX       94     Regnum    coelorum     The    kingdom    of 
Heaven  (Matt.  XL  12). 
132    tota    in  its  entirety. 


APPENDIX 


443 


XXIII    128     Regina  coeli    0  Queen  of  Heaven,  words 
beginning  an  antiphon  in  honor  of 
the  Virgin. 
XXV      26     coram  me    in  my  presence. 

98     Sperent  in  te     They  will  put  their  trust 
in  thee  (Psalm  IX.  10). 
XXIX      12    ubi  ....  quando    where  ....  when. 

15     Subsisto    7  AM. 
XXXII      12    Miserere    mei    Have    mercy    upon   me 
(Psalm  LI.  1). 
59     sine  causa    without  cause. 
95    Ave,  Maria,  gratia  plena    Hail,  Mary, 
full  of  grace,  words  in   the   divine 
office   beginning   the   prayer   to    the 
Virgin,  taken  from  Luke  I.  28. 

