riverrun, past Eve and Adam’s, from swerve of shore to bend 
of bay, brings us by a commodius vicus of recirculation back to 
Howth Castle and Environs. 

Sir Tristram, violer d’amores, fr’over the short sea, had passen- 
core rearrived from North Armorica on this side the scraggy 
isthmus of Europe Minor to wielderfight his penisolate war: nor 
had topsawyer’s rocks by the stream Oconee exaggerated themselse 
to Laurens County’s gorgios while they went doublin their mumper 
all the time: nor avoice from afire bellowsed mishe mishe to 
tauftauf thuartpeatrick: not yet, though venissoon after, had a 
kidscad buttended a bland old isaac: not yet, though all’s fair in 
vanessy, were sosie sesthers wroth with twone nathandjoe. Rot a 
peck of pa’s malt had Jhem or Shen brewed by arclight and rory 
end to the regginbrow was to be seen ringsome on the aquaface. 

The fall (bababadalgharaghtakamminarronnkonnbronntonner- 
ronntuonnthunntrovarrhounawnskawntoohoohoordenenthur- 
nukl) of a once wallstrait oldparr is retaled early in bed and later 
on life down through all Christian minstrelsy. The great fall of the 
offwall entailed at such short notice the pftjschute of Finnegan, 
erse solid man, that the humptyhillhead of humself prumptly sends 
an unquiring one well to the west in quest of his tumptytumtoes: 
and their upturnpikepointandplace is at the knock out in the park 
where oranges have been laid to rust upon the green since dev- 
linsfirst loved livvy. 



What clashes here of wills gen wonts, oystrygods gaggin fishy- 
gods! Brekkek Kekkek Kekkek Kekkek! Koax Koax Koax! Ualu 
Ualu Ualu! Quaouauh! Where the Baddelaries partisans are still 
out to mathmaster Malachus Micgranes and the Verdons cata- 
pelting the camibalistics out of the Whoyteboyce of Hoodie 
Head. Assiegates and boomeringstroms. Sod’s brood, be me fear! 
Sanglorians, save! Arms apeal with larms, appalling. Killykill- 
killy: a toll, a toll. What chance cuddleys, what cashels aired 
and ventilated! What bidimetoloves sinduced by what tegotetab- 
solvers! What true feeling for their’s hayair with what strawng 
voice of false jiccup! O here here how hoth sprowled met the 
duskt the father of fomicationists but, (O my shining stars and 
body!) how hath fanespanned most high heaven the skysign of 
soft advertisement! But waz iz? Iseut.^ Ere were sewers.^ The oaks 
of aid now they lie in peat yet elms leap where askes lay. Phall if 
you but will, rise you must: and none so soon either shall the 
pharce for the nunce come to a setdown secular phoenish. 

Bygmester Finnegan, of the Stuttering Hand, freemen’s mau- 
rer, lived in the broadest way immarginable in his rushlit toofar- 
back for messuages before joshuan judges had given us numbers 
or Helviticus committed deuteronomy (one yeastyday he sternely 
struxk his tete in a tub for to watsch the future of his fates but ere 
he swiftly stock it out again, by the might of moses, the very wat- 
er was eviparated and all the guenneses had met their exodus so 
that ought to show you what a pentschanjeuchy chap he was!) 
and during mighty odd years this man of hod, cement and edi- 
fices in Toper’s Thorp piled buildung supra buildung pon the 
banks for the livers by the Soangso. He addle liddle phifie Annie 
ugged the little craythur. Wither hayre in bonds tuck up your part 
inher. Oftwhile balbulous, mithre ahead, with goodly trowel in 
grasp and ivoroiled overalls which he habitacularly fondseed, like 
Haroun Childeric Eggeberth he would caligulate by multiplicab- 
les the alltitude and malltitude until he seesaw by neatlight of the 
liquor wheretwin ’twas bom, his roundhead staple of other days 
to rise in undress maisonry upstanded (joygrantitl), a waalworth 
of a skyerscape of most eyeful hoyth entowerly, erigenating from 

4 



next to nothing and celescalating the himals and all, hierarchitec- 
titiptitoploftical, with a burning bush abob off its baubletop and 
with larrons o’toolers clittering up and tumbles a’buckets clotter- 
ing down. 

Of the first was he to bare arms and a name: Wassaily Boos- 
laeugh of Riesengeborg. His crest of huroldry, in vert with 
ancillars, troublant, argent, a hegoak, poursuivant, horrid, horned. 
His scutschum fessed, with archers strung, helio, of the second. 
Hootch is for husbandman handling his hoe. Hohohoho, Mister 
Fi nn, you’re going to be Mister Finnagain! Comeday morm and, 
O, you’re vine! Sendday’s eve and, ah, you’re vinegar! Hahahaha, 
Mister Funn, you’re going to be fined again! 

What then agentlike brought about that tragoady thundersday 
this municipal sin business.^ Our cubehouse still rocks as earwitness 
to the thunder of his arafatas but we hear also through successive 
ages that shebby choruysh of unkalified muzzlenimiissilehims that 
would blackguardise the whitestone ever hurtleturtled out of 
heaven. Stay us wherefore in our search for righteousness, O Sus- 
tainer, what time we rise and when we take up to toothmick and 
before we lump down upown our leatherbed and in the night and 
at the fading of the stars ! For a nod to the nabir is better than wink 
to the wabsanti. Otherways wesways like that provost scoffing 
bedoueen the jebel and the jpysian sea. Cropherb the crunch- 
bracken shall decide. Then we’ll know if the feast is a flyday. She 
has a gift of seek on site and she allcasually ansars helpers, the 
dreamy deary. Heed! Heed! It may half been a missnred brick, as 
some say, or it mought have been due to a collupsus of his back 
promises, as others looked at it. (There extand by now one thou- 
sand and one stories, all told, of the same). But so sore did abe 
ite ivvy’s holired abbles, (what with the wallhall’s horrors of rolls- 
rights, carhacks, stonengens, kisstvanes, tramtrees, fargobawlers, 
autokinotons, hippohobbilies, streetfleets, tournintaxes, mega- 
phoggs, circuses and wardsmoats and basilikerks and aeropagods 
and the hoyse and the jollybrool and the peeler in the coat and 
the mecklenburk bitch bite at his ear and the merlinburrow bur- 
rocks and his fore old porecourts, the bore the more, and his 

5 



blightblack workingstacks at tweivepins a dozen and the noobi- 
busses sleighding along Safetyfirst Street and the derryjellybies 
snooping around Tell-No-Tailors’ Comer and the fumes and the 
hopes and the strupithump of his ville’s indigenous romekeepers, 
homesweepers, domecreepers, thurum and thurum in fancymud 
murumd and all the uproor from all the aufroos, a roof for may 
and a reef for hugh butt under his bridge suits tony) wan warn- 
ing Phill filt tippling full. His howd feeled heavy, his hoddit did 
shake. (There was a wall of course in erection) Dimb! He stot- 
tered from the latter. Damb! he was dud. Dumb! Mastabatoom, 
mastabadtomm, when a mon merries his lute is all long. For 
whole the world to see. 

Shize.^ I should shee! Macool, Macool, orra whyi deed ye diie.^ 
of a trying thirstay moumin.^ Sobs they sighdid at Fillagain’s 
chrissormiss wake, all the hoolivans of the nation, prostrated in 
their consternation and their duodisimally profusive plethora of 
ululation. There was plumbs and gmmes and cherifFs and citherers 
and raiders and cinemen too. And the all gianed in with the shout- 
most shoviality. Agog and magog and the round of them agrog. 
To the continuation of that celebration until Hanandhunigan’s 
extermination! Some in kinkin corass, more, kankan keening. 
Belling him up and filling him down. He’s stiff but he’s steady is 
Priam Olim ! ’Twas he was the dacent gaylabouring youth. Sharpen 
his pillowscone, tap up his bier! E’erawhere in this whorl would ye 
hear sich a din again? With their deepbrow fundigs and the dusty 
fidelios. They laid him brawdawn alanglast bed. With a bockalips 
of finisky fore his feet. And a barrowload of guenesis hoer his head. 
Tee the tootal of the fluid hang the twoddle of the fuddled, O ! 

Hurrah, there is but young gleve for the owl globe wheels in 
view which is tautaulogically the same thing. Well, Him a being 
so on the flounder of his bulk like an overgrown babeling, let wee 
peep, see, at Horn, well, see peegee ought he ought, platterplate. cij 
Hum! From Shopalist to Bailywick or from ashtun to baronoath 
or from Buythebanks to Roundthehead or from the foot of the 
bill to ireglint’s eye he calmly extensolies. And all the way (a 
hom!) from fjord to fjell his baywinds’ oboboes shall wail him 

6 



rockbound (hoahoahoah!) in swimswamswum and all the livvy- 
long night, the delldale dalppling night, the night of bluerybells, 
her flittaflute in tricky trochees (O carina! O carina!) wake him. 
With her issavan essavans and her patter jackmartins about all 
them inns and ouses. Tilling a teel of a turn, telling a toll of a tea- 
ry turty Taubling. Grace before Glutton. For what we are, gifs 
a gross if we are, about to believe. So pool the begg and pass the 
kish for crawsake. Omen. So sigh us. Grampupus is fallen down 
but grinny sprids the boord. Whase on the joint of a desh.^ Fin- 
foefom the Fush. Whase be his baken head.^ A loaf of Singpan- 
try’s Kennedy bread. And whase hitched to the hop in his tayle? 
A glass of Danu U’Dunnell’s foamous olde Dobbelin ayle. But, 
lo, as you would quaffoff his fraudstuff and sink teeth through 
that pyth of a flowerwhite bodey behold of him as behemoth for 
he is noewhemoe. Finichel Only a fadograph of a yestem scene. 
Almost rubicund Salmosalar, ancient fromout the ages of the Ag- 
apemonides, he is smolten in our mist, woebecanned and packt 
away. So that meal’s dead off for summan, schlook, schlice and 
goodridhirring. 

Yet may we not see still the brontoichthyan form outlined a- 
slumbered, even in our own nighttime by the sedge of the trout- 
ling stream that Bronto loved and Brunto has a lean on. Ific cubat 
edilis. Apud HJxrtmam parvtdam. Whatif she be in dags or Bitters, 
reekierags or sundyechosies, with a mint of mines or beggar a 
pinnyweight. Arrah, sure, we all love little Anny Ruiny, or, we 
mean to say, lovelittle Anna Rayiny, when unda her brella, mid 
piddle med puddle, she ninnygoes nannygoes nancing by. Yoh! 
Brontolone slaaps,yoh snoores. Upon Benn Heather, in Seeple 
Isout too. The CKinic head on him, caster of his reasons, peer yu- 
thner in yondmist. Whooth.^ His clay feet, swarded in verdigrass, 
stick up starck where he last fellonem, by the mund of the maga- 
zine wall, where our maggy seen all, with her sisterin shawl. 
While over against this belles’ alliance beyind 111 Sixfy, ollol- 
lowed ill! bagsides of the fort, bom, tarabom, tarabom, lurk the 
ombushes, the site of the lyffing-in-wait of the upjock and hock- 
ums. Hence when the clouds roll by, jamey, a proudseye view is 

7 



enjoyable of our mounding’s mass, now Wallinstone national 
museum, with, in some greenish distance, the charmful water- 
loose country and the two quitewhite villagettes who hear show 
of themselves so gigglesomes minxt the follyages, the prettilees! 
Penetrators are permitted into the museomound free. Welsh and 
the Paddy Patkinses, one shelenk! Redismembers invalids of old 
guard find poussepousse pousseypram to sate the sort of their butt. 
For her passkey supply to the janitrix, the mistress Kathe. Tip, 
This the way to the museyroom. Mind your hats goan in! 
Now yiz are in the Willingdone Museyroom. This is a Prooshi- 
ous gunn. This is a ffrinch. Tip. This is the flag of the Prooshi- 
ous, the Cap and Soracer. This is the bullet that byng the flag of 
the Prooshious. This is the f&inch that fire on the Bull that bang 
the flag of the Prooshious. Saloos the Crossgunn! Up with your 
pike and fork! Tip. (Bullsfoot! Fine!) This is the triplewon hat of 
Lipoleum. Tip. Lipoleumhat. This is the Willingdone on his 
same white harse, the Cokenhape. This is the big Sraughter Wil- 
lingdone, grand and magentic in his goldtin spurs and his ironed 
dux and his quarterbrass woodyshoes and his magnate’s gharters 
and his bangkok’s best and goliar’s goloshes and his pullupon- 
easyan wartrews. This is his big wide harse. Tip. This is the three 
lipoleum boyne grouching down in the living detch. This is an 
inimyskilling inglis, this is a scotcher grey, this is a davy, stoop- 
ing. This is the bog lipoleum mordering the lipoleum beg. A 
Gallawghurs argaumunt. This is the petty lipoleum boy that 
was nayther bag nor bug. Assaye, assaye! Touchole Fitz Tuo- 
mush. Dirty ‘MacDyke’. And Hairy ‘O’Hurry. All of them 
arminus-varminus. This is Delian alps. This is Mont Tivel, 
this is Mont Tipsey, this is the Grand Mons Injun. This is the 
crimealine of the alps hooping to sheltershock the three lipoleums. 
This is' the jinnies with their legahoms feinting to read in their 
handmade’s book of stralegy v/hile making their war undisides 
the Willingdone. The jinnies is a cooin her hand and the jinnies is 
a ravin her hair and the Willingdone git the band up. This is big 
Willingdone mormorial tallowscoop W^ounderworker obscides 
on the flanks of the jinnies. Sexcaliber hrosspower. Tip. This 

8 



is me Belchum sneaking his phillippy out of his most Awful 
Grimmest Sunshat Cromwelly. Looted. This is the jinnies’ bast- 
ings dispatch for to irrigate the Willingdone. Dispatch in thin 
red lines cross the shortfront of me Belchum. Yaw, yaw, yaw! 
Leaper Orthor. Fear siecken! Fieldgaze thy tiny frow. Hugact- 
ing, Nap. That was the tictacs of the jinnies for to fontannoy the 
Willingdone. Shee, shee, shee! The jinnies is jillous agincourting 
all the lipoleums. And the lipoleums is gonn boycottoncrezy onto 
the one Willingdone. And the Willingdone git the band up. This 
is bode Belchum, bonnet to busby, breaking his seared word with a 
ball up his ear to the Willingdone. This is the Willingdone’s hur- 
old dispitchback. Dispitch desployed on the regions rare of me 
Belchum. Salamangra! Ayi, ayi, ayi! Cherry jinnies. Figtreeyoul 
Damn fairy ann, Voutre, Willingdone. That was the first joke of 
Willingdone, tic for tac. Hee, hee, hee! This is me Belchum in 
his twelvemile cowchooks, weet, tweet and stampforth foremost, 
footing the camp for the jinnies. Drink a sip, drankasup, for he’s 
as sooner buy a guinness than he’d stale store stout. This is Roo- 
shious balls. This is a ttrinch. This is mistletropes. This is Canon 
Futter with the popynose. After his hundred days’ indulgence. 
This is the blessed. Tarra’s widdarsi This is jinnies in the bonny 
bawn blooches. This is lipoleums in the rowdy howses. This is the 
Willingdone, by the splinters of Cork, order fire. Tonnerre! 
(Bullsear! Play!) This is camelry, this is floodens, this is the 
solphereens in action, this is their mobbily, this is panickbums. 
Almeidagad! Arthiz too loose! This is Willingdone cry. Brum! 
Brum! Cumbrum! This is jinnies cry. Underwetter! Goat 
strip Finnlambs! This is jinnies rinning away to their ouster- 
lists dowan a bunkersheels. With a nip nippy nip and a trip trip- 
py trip so airy. For their heart’s right there. Tip. This is me Bel- 
chum’ s tinkyou tankyou silvoor plate for dtchin the crapes in 
the cool of his canister. Poor the pay! This is the bissmark of the 
marathon merry of the jinnies they left behind them. This is the 
Willingdone branlish his same marmorial tallowscoop Sophy- 
Key-Po for his royal diversion on the rinnaway jinnies. Gam- 
bariste della porca! Dalaveras fimmieras! This is the pettiest 

9 



of the lipoleums, Toffeethief, that spy on the Willingdone from 
his big white harse, the Capeinhope. Stonewall Willingdone 
is an old maxy montrumeny. Lipoleums is nice hung bushel- 
lors. This is hiena hinnessy laughing alout at the Willing- 
done. This is lipsyg dooley krieging the funk from the hinnessy. 
This is the hinndoo Shimar Shin between the dooley boy and the 
hinnessy. Tip. This is the wixy old Willingdone picket up the 
half of the threefoiled hat of lipoleums fromoud of the bluddle 
filth. This is the hinndoo waxing ranjymad for a bombshoob. 
This is the Willingdone hanking the half of the hat of lipoleums 
up the tail on the buckside of his big white harse. Tip. That was 
the last joke of Willingdone. Hit, hit, hit! This is the same white 
harse of the Willingdone, Culpenhelp, waggling his tailoscrupp 
with the half of a hat of lipoleums to insoult on the hinndoo see- 
boy. Hney, hney, hneyl (Bullsrag! Foul!) This is the seeboy, 
madrashattaras, upjump and pumpim, cry to the Willingdone: 
Ap Pukkaru! Pukka Yurap! This is the Willingdone, bomstable 
ghentleman, tinders his maxbotch to the cursigan Shimar Shin. 
Basucker youstead! This is the dooforhim seeboy blow the whole 
of the half of the hat of lipoleums off of the top of the tail on the 
back of his big wide harse. Tip (Bullseye! Game!) How Copen- 
hagen ended. This way the museyroom. Mind your boots goan 
out. 

Phew! 

What a warm time we were in there but how keling is here the 
airabouts! We nowhere she lives but you mussna tell annaone for 
the lamp of Jig-a-Lanthem! It’s a candlelittle houthse of a month 
and one windies. Downadown, High Downadown. And num- 
mered quaindymine. And such reasonable weather too! The wa- 
grant wind’s awalt’zaround the piltdowns and on every blasted 
knolljnrock (if you can spot fifty I spy four more) there’s that 
gnarlybird ygathering, a runalittle, doalitde, preealitde, pouralittle, 
wipealitde,kicksalittle,severalittle,eatalittle,whinealittle,kenalitde, 
helfalitde,pelfalittle gnarlybird. Averytableland of bleakbardfields! 
Under his seven wrothschields lies one, Lumproar. His glav toside 
him. Skud ontorsed. Our pigeons pair are flewn for northcliffs. 

lO 



The three of crows have flapped it southenly, kraaking of de 
baccle to the kvarters of that sky whence triboos answer; Wail, 
'tis well! She niver comes out when Thon’s on shower or when 
Thon’s flash with his Nixy girls or when Thon’s blowing toom- 
cracks dowm the gaels of Thon. Nonubono! Neblas on you liv! 
Her would be too moochy afreet. Of Burymeleg and Bindme- 
rollingeyes and all the deed in the woe. Fe fo fom! She jist does 
hopes till byes will be byes. Here, and it goes on to appear now, 
she comes, a peacefugle, a parody’s bird, a peri potmother, 
a pringlpik in the ilandiskippy, wdth peewee and powwows 
in beggybaggy on her bickybacky and a flick flask fleckflinging 
its pixylighting pacts’ huemeramybows, picking here, pecking 
there, pussypussy plunderpussy. But it’s the armitides toonigh, 
militopucos, and toomourn we wish for a muddy kissmans to the 
minutia workers and there’s to be a gorgeups truce for happinest 
childher everwere. Come nebo me and suso sing the day we 
sallybright. She’s burrowed the coacher’s headlight the better to 
pry (who goes cute goes siocur and shoos aroun) and all spoiled 
goods go into her nabsack: curtrages and rattlin buttins, nappy 
spattees and flasks of all nations, clavicures and scampulars, maps, 
keys and woodpiles of haypennies and moonled brooches with 
bloodstaned breeks in em, boaston nightgarters and masses of 
shoesets and nickelly nacks and foder allmicheal and a lugly parson 
of cates and howitzer muchears and midgers and maggets, ills and 
ells with loffs of toffs and pleures of bells and the last sigh that 
come fro the hart (bucklied!) and the fairest sin the sunsaw 
(that’s cearcl). With Kiss. Kiss Criss. Cross Criss. Kiss Cross. 
Undo lives ’end. Slain. 

How bootifull and how truetowdfe of her, when strengly fore- 
bidden, to steal our historic presents from the past postpropheti- 
cals so as to will make us all lordy heirs and ladymaidesses of a 
pretty nice kettle of fruit. She is liwing in our midst of debt and 
lafling through all plores for us (her birth is uncontrollable), with 
a naperon for her mask and her sabboes kickin arias (so sair! so 
solly!) if yous ask me and I saack you. Hou! Hou! Cricks may 
rise and Troysirs fall (there being two sights for ever a picture) 

II 



for in the byways of high improvidence that’s what makes life- 
work leaving and the world’s a cell for citters to cit in. Let young 
wimman run away with the story and let young min talk smooth 
behind the butteler’s back. She knows her knight’s duty while 
Luntum sleeps. Did ye save any tin? says he. Did I what? with 
a grin says she. And we all like a marriedann because she is mer- 
cenary. Though the length of the land lies under liquidation 
(floote !) and there’s nare a hairbrow nor an eyebush on this glau- 
brous phace of Herrschuft Whatarwelter she’ll loan a vesta and 
hire some peat and sarch the shores her cockles to heat and she’ll 
do all a turfwoman can to piff the business on. Faff. To puff the 
blaziness on. Poffpoff. And even if Humpty shell fall frumpty 
times as awkward again in the beardsboosoloom of all our grand 
remonstrancers there’ll be iggs for the brekkers come to moum- 
him, sunny side up with care. So true is it that therewhere’s a 
turnover the tay is wet too and when you think you ketch sight 
of a hind make sure but you’re cocked by a hin. 

Then as she is on her behaviourite job of quainance bandy, 
fruting for firstlings and taking her tithe, we may take our review 
of the two mounds to see nothing of the himples here as at else- 
where, by sixes and sevens, like so many heegills and collines, 
sitton aroont, scentbreeched and somepotreek, in their swisha- 
wish satins and their taffetaffe tights, playing Wharton’s Folly, 
at a treepurty on the planko in the purk. Stand up, mickos! 
Make strake for minnas ! By order, Nicholas Proud. We may see 
and hear nothing if we choose of the shortlegged bergins off 
Corkhill or the bergamoors of Arbourhill or the bergagambols 
of Summerhill or the bergincellies of Miseryhill or the country- 
bossed bergones of Constitutionhill though every crowd has its 
several tones and every trade has its clever mechanics and each 
harmonical has a point of its own, Olaf’s on the rise and Ivor’s 
on the lift and Sitric’s place’s between them. But all they are all 
there scraping along to sneeze out a likelihood that will solve 
and salve life’s robulous rebus, hopping round his middle like 
kippers on a griddle, O, as he lays dormont from the macroborg 
of Holdhard to the microbirg of Pied de Poudre. Behove this 


zz 



sound of Irish sense. Really.^ Here English might be seen. 
Royally.^ One sovereign punned to petery pence. Regally.^ The 
silence speaks the scene. Fake! 

So This Is Dyoublong? 

Hush! Caution! Echoland! 

How charmingly exquisite! It reminds you of the outwashed 
engravure that we used to be blurring on the blotchwall of his 
innkempt house. Used they? (I am sure that tiring chabelshovel- 
ler with the mujikal chocolat box, Miry Mitchel, is listening) I 
say, the remains of the outworn gravemiure where used to be 
blurried the Ptollmens of the Incabus. Used we? (He is only pre- 
tendant to be stugging at the jubalee harp from a second existed 
lishener, Fiery Farrelly.) It is well known. Lokk for himself and 
see the old butte new. Dbln. W. K. O. O. Hear? By the mauso- 
lime wall. Fimfim fimfim. With a grand funferall. Fumfum fum- 
fum. ’Tis optophone which ontophanes. List! Wheatstone’s 
magic Iyer. They will be tuggling foriver. They will be lichening 
for allof. They will be pretumbling forover. The harpsdischord 
shall be theirs for ollaves. 

Four things therefore, saith our herodotary Mammon Lujius 
in his grand old historiorum, wrote near Boriorum, bluest book 
in baile’s annals, f.t. in DyfHinarsky ne’er sail fail til heathersmoke 
and cloudweed Eire’s ile sail pall. And here now they are, the fear 
of um. T. Totities! Unum. (Adar.) A bulbenboss surmounted up- 
on an alderman. Ay, ay! Duum. (Nizam.) A shoe on a puir old 
wobban. Ah, ho! Triom. (Tamuz.) An auburn mayde, o’brine 
a’bride, to be desarted. Adear, adear! Quodlihus. (Marchessvan.) A 
penn no weightier nor a polepost. And so. And all. (Succoth.) 

So, how idlers’ wind turning pages on pages, as innocens with 
anaclete play popeye antipop, the leaves of the living in the boke 
of the deeds, annals of themselves timing the cycles of events 
grand and national, bring fassilwise to pass how. 

1132 A.D. Men like to ants or emmets wondern upon a groot 
hwide Whallfisk which lay in a Runnel. Blubby wares upat Ub- 
lanium. 

566 A.D. On Baalfire’s night of this year after deluge a crone that 

13 



hadde a wickered Kish for to hale dead turves from the bog look- 
it under the blay of her Kish as she ran for to sothisfeige her cow- 
rieosity and be me sawl but she found hersell sackvulle of swart 
goody quickenshoon and small illigant brogues, so rich in sweat. 
Blurry works at Hurdlesford. 

(Silent.) 

5<S6 A.D. At this time it fell out that a brazenlockt damsel grieved 
(sobralasolas/') because that Puppette her minion was ravisht of her 
by the ogre Puropeus Pious. Bloody wars in Ballyaughacleeagh- 
bally. 

1132. A.D. Two sons at an hour were bom until a goodman 
and his hag. These sons called themselves Caddy and Primas. 
Primas was a santryman and drilled all decent people. Caddy 
went to Winehouse and wrote o peace a farce. Blotty words for 
Dublin. 

Somewhere, parently, in the ginnandgo gap between antedilu- 
vious and annadominant the copyist must have fled with his 
scroll. The billy flood rose or an elk charged him or the sultrup 
worldwright from the excelsissimost empyrean (bolt, in sum) 
earthspake or the Dannamen gallous banged pan the bliddy du- 
ran. A scribicide then and there is led off under old’s code with 
some fine covered by six marks or ninepins in metalmen for the 
sake of his labour’s dross while it will be only now and again in 
our rear of o’er era, as an upshoot of military and civil engage- 
ments, that a gynecure was let on to the scuffold for taking that 
same fine sum covertly by meddlement with the drawers of his 
neighbor’s safe. 

Now after all that farfatch’d and peragrine or dingnant or clere 
lift we our ears, eyes of the darkness, from the tome of Liber Li- 
vidus and, (toh!), how paisibly eirenical, all dimmering dunes 
and gloamering glades, selfstretches afore us our fredeland’s plain! 
Lean neath stone pine the pastor lies with his crook; young pric- 
ket by pricket’s sister nibbleth on returned viridities; amaid her 
rocking grasses the herb trinity shams lowliness; skyup is of ever- 
grey. Thus, too, for donkey’s years. Since the bouts of Hebear 
and Hairyman the cornflowers have been staying at Ballymun, 

14 



the duskrose has choosed out Goatstown’s hedges, twolips have 
pressed togatherthem by sweet Rush, townland of twinedlights, 
the whitethorn and the redthorn have fairygeyed the mayvalieys 
of Knockmaroon, and, though for rings round them, during a 
chiliad of perihelygangs, the Formoreans ha\e brittled the too- 
ath of the Danes and the Oxman has been pestered b^ the Fire- 
bugs and the Joynts have thrown up jerrybuilding to the Kevan- 
ses and Little on the Green is childsfather to the City (Year! 
Year! And laugh tears!), these paxsealing buttonholes have quad- 
rilled across the centuries and whiif now whaift to us, fresh and 
made-of-all-smiles as, on the eve of Killallwho. 

The babbelers with their thangas vain have been (confusium 
hold them!) they were and went; thigging thugs were and hou- 
hnhymn songtoms were and comely norgels were and pollyfool 
fiansees. Menn have thawed, clerks have surssurhummed , the 
blond has sought of the brune: Elsekiss thou may, mean Kerry 
piggy?: and the duncledames have countered with the hellish fel- 
lows: Who ails tongue coddeau, aspace of dumbillsilly? And they 
fell upong one another: and themselves they have fallen. And 
still nowanights and by nights of yore do all bold floras of the 
field to their shyfaun lovers say only: Cull me ere I wilt to thee!: 
and, but a little later: Pluck me whilst I blush! Well may they 
wilt, marry, and profusedly blush, be troth! For that saying is as 
old as the howitts. Lave a whale a while in a whillbarrow (isn’t 
it the truath I’m tallin yei*) to have fins and flippers that shimmy 
and shake. Tim Timmycan timped hir, tamp ting Tam. Fleppety! 
Flippety! Fleapow! 

Hop! 

In the name of Anem this carl on the kopje in pelted thongs a 
parth a lone who the joebiggar be he? Forshapen his pigmaid 
hoagshead, shroonk his plodsfoot. He hath locktoes, this short- 
shins, and, Obeold that’s pectoral, his mammamuscles most 
mousterious. It is slaking nuncheon out of some thing’s brain 
pan. Me seemeth a dragon man. He is almonthst on the kiep 
fief by here, is Comestipple Sacksoun, be it junipery or febre- 
wery, marracks or alebrill or the ramping riots of pouriose and 

15 



froriose. What a quhare soort of a mahan. It is evident the mich- 
indaddy. Lets we overstep his fire defences and these kraals of 
slitsucked marrogbones. (Cave!) He can prapsposterus the pil- 
lory way to Hirculos pillar. Come on, fool porterfull, hosiered 
women blown monk sewer.^ Scuse us, chorley guy! You toller- 
day donsk.^ N. You tolkatiff scowegian.^ Nn. You spigotty an- 
glease.^ Nnn. You phonio saxo,^ Nnnn. Clear all so ! ’Tis a Jute. 
Let us swop hats and excheck a few strong verbs weak oach ea- 
ther yapyazzard abast the blooty creeks. 

Jute. — Yutah! 

Mutt. — Mukk’s pleasurad. 

Jute. — Are you jeff.^ 

Mutt. — Somehards. 

Jute. — But you are not jeffmute? 

Mutt. — Noho. Only an utterer. 

Jute. — Whoa? Whoat is the mutter with you? 

Mutt. — I became a stun a stummer. 

Jute. — What a hauhauhauhaudibble thing, to be cause! How, 
Mutt? 

Mutt. — Aput the buttle, surd. 

Jute. — Whose poddle? Wherein? 

Mutt. — The Inns of Dungtarf where Used awe to be he. 

Jute. — You that side your voise are almost inedible to me. 

Become a bitskin more wiseable, as if I were 
you. 

Mutt. — Has? Has at? Hasatency? Urp, Boohooru! Booru 
Usurp! I trumple from rath in mine mines when I 
rimimirim! 

Jute. — One eyegonblack. Bisons is .bisons. Let me fore all 
your hasitancy cross your qualm with trink gilt. Here 
have sylvan coyne, a piece of oak. Ghinees hies good 
for you. 

Mutt. — Louee, louee! How wooden I not know it, the intel- 
lible greytcloak of Cedric Silkyshag! Cead mealy 
faulty rices for one dabblin bar. Old grilsy growlsy! 
He was poached on in that eggtentical spot. Here 

i6 



where the liveries, Monomark. There where the mis- 
sers moony, Minnikin passe. 

Jute. — Simply because as Taciturn pretells, our wrongstory- 
shortener, he dumptied the wholeborrow of rubba- 
ges on to soil here. 

Mutt. — Just how a puddinstone inat the brookcells by a 
riverpool. 

Jute. — Load Allmarshy! Wid wad for a norse like.^ 

Mutt. — Somular with a bull on a clompturf. Rooks roarum 
rex roome ! I could snore to him of the spumy horn, 
with his woolseley side in, by the neck I am sutton 
on, did Brian d’ of Linn. 

Jute. — Boildoyle and rawhoney on me when I can beuraly 
forsstand a weird from sturk to finnic in such a pat- 
what as your rutterdamrotter. Onheard of and um- 
scene! Gut aftermeal! See you doomed. 

Mutt. — Quite agreem. Bussave a sec. Walk a dun blink 
roundward this albutisle and you skull see how olde 
ye plaine of my Liters, hunfree and ours, where wone 
to wail whimbrel to peewee o’er the saltings, where 
wilby citie by law of isthmon, where by a droit of 
signory, icefloe was from his Inn the Byggning to 
whose Finishthere Punct. Let erehim ruhmuhrmuhr. 
Mearmerge two races, swete and brack. Morthering 
rue. Hither, craching eastuards, they are in surgence: 
hence, cool at ebb, they requiesce. Countlessness of 
livestories have netherfallen by this plage, flick as 
flowflakes, litters from aloft, like a waast wizzard all of 
whirlworlds. Now are all tombed to the mound, isges 
to isges, erde from erde. Pride, O pride, thy prize! 

Jute. — ’Stench! 

Mutt. — FiatfuitI Hereinunder lyethey. Llarge by the smal an’ 
everynight life olso th’estrange, babylone the great- 
grandhotelled with tit tit tittlehouse, alp on earwig, 
drukn on ild, likeas equal to anequal in this sound 
seemetery which iz leebez luv. 

17 


B 



Jute. — ’Zmorde! 

Mutt. — Meldundleize! By the fearse wave behoughted. Des- 
pond’s sung. And thanacestross mound have swollup 
them all. This ourth of years is not save brickdust 
and being humus the same roturns. He who runes 
may rede it on all fours. O’c’stle, n’wc’stle, tr’c’stle, 
crumbling! Sell me sooth the fare for Humblin! Hum- 
blady Fair. But speak it allsosiftly, moulder! Be in 
your whisht! 

Jute. — Whysht.^ 

Mutt. — The gyant Forficules with Amni the fay. 

Jute. — Howe.^ 

Mutt. — Here is viceking’s graab. 

Jute. — Hwaad ! 

Mutt. — Ore you astoneaged, jute you.^ 

Jute. — Oye am thonthorstrok, thing mud. 

(Stoop) if you are abcedminded, to this daybook, what curios 
of signs (please stoop), in this allaphbed! Can you rede (since 
We and Thou had it out already) its world.^ It is the same told 
of all. Many. Miscegenations on miscegenations. Tieckle. They 
lived und laughed ant loved end left. Forsin. Thy thingdome is 
given to the Meades and Porsons. The meandertale, aloss and 
again, of our old Heidenburgh in the days when Head-in-Clouds 
walked the earth. In the ignorance that implies impression that 
knits knowledge that finds the nameform that whets the wits that 
convey contacts that sweeten sensation that drives desire that 
adheres to attachment that dogs death that bitches birth that en- 
tails the ensuance of existentiality. But with a rush out of his 
navel reaching the reredos of Ramasbatham. A terricolous vively- 
onview this; queer and it continues to be quaky. A hatch, a celt, 
an earshare the pourquose of which was to cassay the earthcrust at 
all of hours, furrowards, bagawards, like yoxen at the turnpaht. 
Here say figurines billycoose arming and mounting. Mounting and 
arming bellicose figurines see here. Futhorc, this liffle effingee is for 
a firefing called a flintforfall. Face at the eased! O I fay! Face at the 
waist! Ho, you fie! Upwap and dump em, ^ace to Utacel When a 

x8 



part so ptee does duty for the holos we soon grow to use of an 
allforabit. Here (please to stoop) are selveran cued peteet peas of 
quite a pecuniar interest inaslittle as they are the pellets that make 
the tomtummy’s pay roll. Right rank ragnar rocks and with these 
rox orangotangos rangled rough and rightgorong. Wisha, wisha, 
whydidtha.^ Thik is for thorn that’s thuck in its thoil like thum- 
fool’s thraitor thrust for vengeance. What a mnice old mness it 
all mnakes! A middenhide hoard of objects! Olives, beets, kim- 
mells, dollies, alfrids, beatties, cormacks and daltons. Owlets’ eegs 
(O stoop to please!) are here, creakish from age and all now 
quite epsilene, and oldwolldy wobblewers, haudworth a wipe o 
grass. Sss! See the snake wurrums everyside! Our durlbin is 
sworming in sneaks. They came to our island from triangular 
Toucheaterre beyond the wet prairie rared up in the midst of the 
cargon of prohibitive pomefructs but along landed Paddy Wip- 
pingham and the his garbagecans cotched the creeps of them 
pricker than our whosethere outofman could quick up her whats- 
thats. Somedivide and sumthelot but the tally turns round the 
same balifuson. Racketeers and bottloggers. 

Axe on thwacks on thracks, axenwise. One by one place one 
be three dittoh and one before. Two nursus one make a plaus- 
ible free and idim behind. Starting off with a big boaboa and three- 
legged calvers and ivargraine jadesses with a message in their 
mouths. And a hundreadfilled unleavenweight of liberorumqueue 
to con an we can till allhorrors eve. What a meanderthalltale to 
unfurl and with what an end in view of squattor and anntisquattor 
and postproneauntisquattor! To say too us to be every tim, nick 
and larry of us, sons of the sod, sons, littlesons, yea and lealittle- 
sons, when usses not to be, every sue, siss and sally of us, dugters 
of Nan! Accusative ahnsire! Damadam to infinities! 

True there was in nillohs dieybos as yet no lumpend papeer 
in the waste and mightmountain Penn still groaned for the micies 
to let flee. All was of ancientry. You gave me a boot (signs on 
it!) and I ate the wind. I qui2:zed you a quid (with for whati*) and 
you went to the quod. But the world, mind, is, was and will be 
writing its own wrunes for ever, man, on all matters that fall 

19 



under the ban of our infrarational senses fore the last milch- 
camel, the heartvein throbbing between his eyebrowns, has still to 
moor before the tomb of his cousin charmian where his date is 
tethered by the palm that’s hers. But the horn, the drinking, the 
day of dread are not now. A bone, a pebble, a ramskin; chip them, 
chap them, cut them up allways; leave them to terracook in the 
muttheringpot: and Gutenmorg with his cromagnom charter, 
tintingfast and great primer must once for omniboss step rub- 
rickredd out of the wordpress else is there no virtue more in al- 
cohoran. For that (the rapt one warns) is what papyr is meed 
of, made of, hides and hints and misses in prints. Till ye finally 
(though not yet endlike) meet with the acquaintance of Mister 
Typus, Mistress Tope and all the little typtopies. Fillstup. So you 
need hardly spell me how every word will be bound over to carry 
three score and ten toptypsical readings throughout the book of 
Doublends Jined (may his forehead be darkened with mud who 
would sunder I) till Daleth, mahomahouma, who oped it closeth 
thereof the. Dor. 

Cry not yet! There’s many a smile to Nondum, with sytty 
maids per man, sir, and the park’s so dark by kindlelight. But 
look what you have in your handself! The movibles are scrawl- 
ing in motions, marching, all of them ago, in pitpat and zingzang 
for every busy eerie whig’s a bit of a torytale to tell. One’s upon 
a thyme and two’s behind their lettice leap and three’s among the 
strubbely beds. And the chicks picked their teeths and the domb- 
key he begay began. You can ask your ass if he believes it. And 
so cuddy me only wallops have heels. That one of a wife with 
folty bamets. For then was the age when hoops ran high. Of a 
noarch and a chopwife; of a pomme full grave and a fammy of 
levity; or of golden youths that wanted gelding; or of what the 
mischievmiss made a man do. Malmarriedad he was reverso- 
gassed by the frisque of her frasques and her prytty pyrrhique. 
Maye faye, she’s la gaye this snaky woman! From that trippiery 
toe expectungpelick! Veil, volantine, valentine eyes. She’s the 
very besch Winnie blows Nay on good. Flou inn, flow ann. 
Hohore! So it’s sure it was her not we! But lay it easy, gentle 

20 



mien, we are in rearing of a norewhig. So weenybeeny- 
veeny teeny. Comsy see! Het wis if ee newt. Lissom! lissom! 
I am doing it. Hark, the come entreats! And the larpnotes 
prittle. 

It was of a night, late, lang time agone, in an auldstane eld, 
when Adam was delvin and his madameen spinning watersilts, 
when mulk mountynotty man was everybully and the first leal 
ribberrobber that ever had her ainway everybuddy to his love- 
saking eyes and everybilly lived alove with everybiddy else, and 
Jarl van Hoother had his burnt head high up in his lamphouse, 
laying cold hands on himself. And his two little jiminies, cousins 
of ourn, Tristopher and Hilary, were kickaheeling their dummy 
on the oil cloth flure of his homerigh, castle and earthenhouse. 
And, be dermot, who come to the keep of his inn only the niece- 
of-his-in-law, the prankquean. And the prankquean pulled a rosy 
one and made her wit foreninst the dour. And she lit up and fire- 
land was ablaze. And spoke she to the dour in her petty perusi- 
enne; Mark the Wans, why do I am alook alike a poss of porter- 
pease.^ And that was how the skirtmisshes began. But the dour 
handworded her grace in dootch nossow: Shut! So her grace 
o’malice kidsnapped up the jiminy Tristopher and into the shan- 
dy westemess she rain, rain, rain. And Jarl van Hoother war- 
lessed after her with soft dovesgall: Stop deef stop come back to 
my earin stop. But she swaradid to him: Unlikelihud. And there 
was a brannewail that same sabboath night of falling angles some- 
where in Erio. And the prankquean went for her forty years’ 
walk in Tourlemonde and she washed the blessings of the love- 
spots off the jiminy with soap sulliver suddles and she had her 
four owlers masters for to tauch him his tickles and she conver- 
ted him to the onesure allgood and he became a luderman. So then 
she started to rain and to rain and, be redtom, she was back again 
at Jarl van Hoother’s in a brace of samers and the jiminy with 
her in her pinafrond, lace at night, at another time. And where 
did she come but to the bar of his bristolry. And Jarl von Hoo- 
ther had his baretholobruised heels drowmed in his cellarmalt, 
shaking warm hands with himself and the jimminy Hilary and 

21 



the dummy in their first infancy were below on the tearsheet, 
wringing and coughing, like brodar and histher. And the prank- 
quean nipped a paly one and lit up again and redcocks flew flack- 
ering from the hillcombs. And she made her witter before the 
wicked, saying: Mark the Twy, why do I am alook alike two poss 
of porterpease? And: Shut! says the wicked, handwording her 
madesty. So her madesty ‘a forethought’ set down a jiminy and 
took up a jiminy and all the lilipath ways to Woeman’s Land she 
rain, rain, rain. And Jarl von Hoother bleethered atter her with 
a loud finegale: Stop domb stop come back -with my earring stop. 
But the prankquean swaradid: Am liking it. And there was a wild 
old grannewwail that laurency night of starshootings somewhere 
in Erio. And the prankquean went for her forty years’ walk in 
Tumlemeem and she punched the curses of cromcruwell with 
the nail of a top into the jiminy and she had her four larksical 
monitrix to touch him his tears and she provorted him to the 
onecertain allsecure and he became a tristian. So then she started 
raining, raining, and in a pair of changers, be dom ter, she was 
back again at Jarl von Hoother’s and the Larry hill with her under 
her abromette. And why would she halt at all if not by the ward 
of his mansionhome of another nice lace for the third charm.^ 
And Jarl von Hoother had his hurricane hips up to his pantry- 
box, ruminating in his holdfour stomachs (Dare! O dare!), and 
the jiminy Toughertrees and the dummy were belove on the 
waiercloth, kissing and spitting, and roguing and poghuing, like 
knavepaltry and naivebride and in their second infancy. And the 
prankquean picked a blank and lit out and the valleys lay twink- 
ling. And she made her wittest in front of the arkway of trihump, 
asking; Mark the Tris, why do I am alook alike three poss of por- 
ter pease.^ But that was how the skirtmishes endupped. For like 
the Campbells acoming with a fork lance of lightning, Jarl von 
Hoother Boanerges himself, the old terror of the dames, came 
hip hop handihap out through the pikeopened arkway of his 
three shuttoned castles, in his broadginger hat and his civic chol- 
lar and his allabuff hemmed and his bullbraggin soxangloves 
and his ladbroke breeks and his cattegut bandolair and his fur- 

22 



framed panuncular cumbottes like a rudd yellan gruebleen Or- 
angeman in his violet indigonation, to the whole longth of the 
strongth of his bowman’s bill. And he clopped his rude hand to 
his eacy hitch and he ordurd and his thick spch spck for her to 
shut up shop, dappy. And the duppy shot the shutter clup (Per- 
kodhuskurunbarggruauyagokgorlayorgromgremmitghundhurth- 
rumathunaradidillifaititillibumullunukkunun!) And they all drank 
free. For one man in his armour was a fat match always for any 
girls under shurts. And that was the first peace of Illiterative 
porthery in all the flamend floody flatuous world. How kirssy the 
tilei made a sweet unclose to the Narwhealian captol. Saw fore 
shalt thou sea. Betoun ye and be. The prankquean was to hold 
her dummyship and the jimminies was to keep the peacewave 
and van Hoother was to git the -wind up. Thus the hearsomeness 
of the burger felicitates the whole of the polis. 

O foenix culprit! Ex nickylow malo comes mickelmassed bo- 
num. Hill, rill, ones in company, billeted, less be proud of. Breast 
high and bestride! Only for that these will not breathe upon 
Norronescn or Irenean the secrest of their soorcelossness. Quar- 
ry silex, Homfrie Noanswa! Undy gentian festyknees, Livia No- 
answa.^ Wolkencap is on him, frowned; audiurient, he would 
evesdrip, were it mous at hand, were it dinn of bottles in the far 
ear. Murk, his vales are darkling. With lipth she lithpeth to him 
all to time of thuch on thuch and thow on thow. She he she ho 
she ha to la. Hairfluke, if he could bad twig her! Impalpabunt, 
he abhears. The soundwaves are his buffeteers; they trompe him 
with their trompes; the wave of roary and the wave of hooshed 
and the wave of hawhawhawrd and the wave of neverheedthem- 
horseluggarsandlistletomine. Landloughed by his neaghboormis- 
tress and perpetrified in his offsprung, sabes and suckers, the 
moaning pipers could tell him to his faceback, the louthly one 
whose loab we are devorers of, how butt for his hold halibutt, or 
her to her pudor puflF, the lipalip one whose libe we drink at, how 
biff for her tiddywink of a windfall, our breed and washer givers, 
there would not be a holey spier on the town nor a vestal flout- 
ing in the dock, nay to make plein avowels, nor a yew nor an eye 

^3 



to play cash cash in Novo Nilbud by swamplight nor a’ toole o’ 
tall o’ toll and noddy hint to the convaynience. 

He dug in and dug out by the skill of his tilth for himself and 
all belonging to him and he sweated his crew beneath his auspice 
for the living and he urned his dread, that dragon volant, and he 
made louse for us and delivered us to boll weevils amain, that 
mighty liberator, Unfru-Chikda-Uru-Wukru and begad he did, 
our ancestor most worshipful, till he thought of a better one in 
his windower’s house with that blushmantle upon him from ears- 
end to earsend. And would again could whispring grassies w’ake 
him and may again when the fiery bird disembers. And will 
again if so be sooth by elder to his youngers shall be said. Have 
you whines for my wedding, did you bring bride and bedding, 
will you whoop for my deading is a.^ Wake? Usqueadbaugham! 

Anam muck an dhoul ! Did ye drink me doornail? 

Now be aisy, good Mr Finnimore, sir. And take your laysure 
like a god on pension and don’t be walking abroad. Sure you’d 
only lose yourself in Healiopolis now the way your roads in 
Kapelavaster are that winding there after the calvary, the North 
Umbrian and the Fivs Barrow and Waddlings Raid and the 
Bower Moore and wet your feet maybe with the foggy dew’s 
abroad. Meeting some sick old bankrupt or the Cottericks’ donkey 
with his shoe hanging, clankatachankata, or a slut snoring wnth an 
impure infant on a bench. ’Twould turn you against life, so 
’twould. And the weather’s that mean too. To part from Devlin 
is hard as Nugent knew, to leave the clean tanglesome one lushier 
than its neighbour enfranchisable fields but let your ghost have 
no grievance. You’re better oflF, sir, where you are, primesigned 
in the full of your dress, bloodeagle waistcoat and all, remember- 
ing your shapes and sizes on the pillow of your babycurls under 
your sycamore by the keld water where the Tory’s clay will scare 
the varmints and have all you want, pouch, gloves, flask, bricket, 
kerchief, ring and amberulla, the whole treasure of the pyre, in the 
land of souls with Homin and Broin Baroke and pole ole Lonan 
and Nobucketnozzler and the Guinnghis Khan. And we’ll be 
coming here, the ombre players, to rake your gravel and bringing 

24 



you presents, won’t we, fenians? And it isn’t our spittle we’ll stint 
you of, is it, druids? Not shabbty little imagettes, pennydirts and 
dodgemyeyes you buy in the soottee stores. But offerings of the 
field. Mieliodories, that Doctor Faherty, the madison man, 
taught to gooden you. Poppypap’s a passport out. And honey is 
the holiest thing ever was, hive, comb and earwax, the food for 
glory, (mind you keep the pot or your nectar cup may yield too 
light!) and some goat’s milk, sir, like the maid used to bring you. 
Your fame is spreading like Basilico’s ointment since the Fintan 
Lalors piped you overborder and there’s whole households be- 
yond the Bothnians and they calling names after you. The men- 
here’s always talking of you sitting around on the pig’s cheeks 
under the sacred rooftree, over the bowls of memory where every 
hollow holds a hallow, with a pledge till the drengs, in the Salmon 
House. And admiring to our supershillelagh where the palmsweat 
on high is the mark of your manument. All the toethpicks ever 
Eirenesians chewed on are chips chepped from that battery 
block. If you were bowed and soild and letdown itself from the 
oner of the load it was that paddyplanters might pack up plenty and 
when you were undone in every point fore the laps of goddesses 
you showed our labourlasses how to free was easy. The game old 
Gunne, they do be saying, (skull!) that was a planter for you, a 
spicer of them all. Begog but he was, the G.O.G! He’s dudd- 
andgunne now and we’re apter finding the sores of his sedeq 
but peace to his great limbs, the buddhoch, with the last league 
long rest of him, while the millioncandled eye of Tuskar sweeps 
the Moylean Main ! There was never a warlord in Great Erinnes 
and Brettland, no, nor in all Pike County like you, they say. No, 
nor a king nor an ardking, bung king, sung king or hung king. 
That you could fell an elmstree twelve urchins couldn’t ring 
round and hoist high the stone that Liam failed. Who but a Mac- 
cullaghmore the reise of our fortunes and the faunayman at the 
funeral to compass our cause? If you was hogglebully itself and 
most frifty like you was taken waters still what all where was 
your like to lay the cable or who was the batter could better 
Your Grace? Mick Mac Magnus MacCawley can take you off to 

25 



the pure perfection and Leatherbags Reynolds tries your shuffle 
and cut. But as Hopkins and Hopkins puts it, you were the pale 
eggynaggy and a Hs to tilly up. We calls him the joumeyall 
Buggaloffs since he went Jerusalemfaring in Arssia Manor. You 
had a gamier cock than Pete, Jake or Martin and your archgoose 
of geese stubbled for All Angels’ Day. So may the priest of seven 
worms and scalding tayboil. Papa Vestray, come never anear you 
as your hair grows wheater beside the Liffey that’s in Heaven! 
Hep, hep, hurrah there! Hero! Seven times thereto we salute 
you! The whole bag of kits, falconplumes and jackboots incloted, 
is where you flung them that time. Your heart is in the system 
of the Shewolf and your crested head is in the tropic of Copri- 
capron. Your feet are in the cloister of Virgo. Your olala is in the 
region of sahuls. And that’s ashore as you were born. Your shuck 
tick’s swell. And that there texas is tow linen. The loamsome 
roam to Laffayette is ended. Drop in your tracks, babe! Be not 
unrested! The headboddylwatcher of the chempel of Isid, 
Totumcalmum, saith: I know thee, metherjar, I know thee, sal- 
vation boat. For we have performed upon thee, thou abrama- 
nation, who comest ever without being invoked, whose coming 
is unknown, all the things which the company of the precentors 
and of the grammarians of Christpatrick’s ordered concerning 
thee in the matter of the work of thy tombing. Howe of the ship- 
men, steep wall! 

Everything’s going on the same or so it appeals to all of us, 
in the old holmsted here. Coughings all over the sanctuary, bad 
scrant to me aunt Florenza. The horn for breakfast, one o’gong 
for lunch and dinnerchime. As popular as when Belly the First 
was keng and his members met in the Diet of Man. The same 
shop slop in the window. Jacob’s lettercrackers and Dr Tipple’s 
Vi-Cocoa and the Eswuards’ desippated soup beside Mother Sea- 
gull’s syrup. Meat took a drop when Reilly-Parsons failed. Coal’s 
short but we’ve plenty of bog in the yard. And barley’s up again, 
begrained to it. The lads is attending school nessans regular, sir, 
spelling beesknees with hathatansy and turning out tables by 
mudapplication. Allfor the books and never pegging smashers 

26 



after Tom Bo we Glassarse or Timmy the Tosser. ’Tisraely the 
truth! No isn’t it, roman pathoricks? You were the doublejoynted 
janitor the morning they were delivered and you’ll be a grandfer 
yet entirely when the ritehand seizes what -the lovearm knows, 
Kevin’s just a doat with his cherub cheek, chalking oghres on 
walls, and his little lamp and schoolbelt and bag of knicks, playing 
postman’s knock round the diggings and if the seep were milk 
you could lieve his olde by his ide but, laus sake, the devil does 
be in that knirps of a Jerry sometimes, the tarandtan plaidboy, 
making encostive inkum out of the last of his lavings and writing 
a blue streak over his bourseday shirt. Hetty Jane’s a child of 
Mary, She’ll be coming (for they’re sure to choose her) in her 
white of gold with a tourch of ivy to rekindle the flame on Felix 
Day. But Essie Shanahan has let down her skirts. You remember 
Essie in our Luna’s Convent.^ They called her Holly Merry her 
lips were so ruddyberry and Pia de Purebelle when the redminers 
riots was on about her. Were I a clerk designate to the Williams- 
woodsmenufactors I’d poster those pouters on every jamb in the 
town. She’s making her rep at Lanner’s twicenightly. With the 
tabarine tamtammers of the whirligigmagees. Beats that cachucha 
flat. ’Twould dilate your heart to go. 

Aisy now, you decent man, with your knees and lie quiet and 
repose your honour’s lordship I Hold him here, Ezekiel Irons, and 
may God strengthen you! It’s our warm spirits, boys, he’s spoor- 
ing. Dimitrius O’Flagonan, cork that cure for the Clancartys ! You 
swamped enough since Portobello to float the Pomeroy. Fetch 
neahere, Pat Koy! And fetch nouyou, Pam Yates! Be nayther 
angst of Wramawitch ! Here’s lumbos. Where misties swaddlum, 
where misches lodge none, where mystries pour kind on, O 
sleepy! So be yet! 

I’ve an eye on queer Behan and old Kate and the butter, trust me. 
She’ll do no jugglywuggly with her war souvenir postcards to 
help to build me murial, tippers! I’ll trip your traps! Assure a 
sure there! And we put on your clock again, sir, for you. Did or 
didn’t we, sharestutterers? So you won’t be up a stump entirely. 
Nor shed your remnants. The sternwheel’s crawling strong. I 

27 



seen your missus in the hall. Like the queenoveire. Arrah, it’s 
herself that’s fine, too, don’t be talking! Shirksends.?* You storyan 
Harry chap longa me Harry chap storyan grass woman plelthy 
good trout. Shakeshands. Dibble a hayfork’s wrong with her only 
her lex’s salig. Boald Tib does be yawning and smirking cat’s 
hours on the Pollockses’ woolly round tabouretcushion watch- 
ing her sewing a dream together, the tailor’s daughter, stitch to 
her last. Or while waiting for winter to fire the enchantement, 
decoying more nesters to fall down the flue. It’s an allavalonche that 
blows nopussy food. If you only were there to explain the mean- 
ing, best of men, and talk to her nice of guldenselver. The lips 
would moisten once again. As when you drove with her to Fin- 
drinny Fair. What with reins here and ribbons there all your 
hands were employed so she never knew was she on land or at 
sea or swooped through the blue like Airwinger’s bride. She 
was flirtsome then and she’s fluttersome yet. She can second a 
song and adores a scandal when the last post’s gone by. Fond of 
a concertina and pairs passing when she’s had her forty winks 
for supper after kanekannan and abbely dimpling and is in her 
merlin chair assorted, reading her Evening World. To see is 
it smarts, full lengths or swaggers. News, news, all the news. 
Death, a leopard, kills fellah in Fez. Angry scenes at Stormount. 
Stilla Star with her lucky in goingaways. Opportunity fair with 
the China floods and we hear these rosy rumours. Ding Tams he 
noise about all same Harry chap. She’s seeking her way, a chickle 
a chuckle, in and out of their serial story, Les Loves of Selskar 
et Pervenche^ freely adapted to The NowergirCs Viv. There’ll 
be bluebells blowing in salty sepulchres the night she signs her 
final tear. Zee End. But that’s a world of ways away. Till track 
laws time. No silver ash or switches for that one! While flattering 
candles flare. Anna Stacey’s how are you! Worther waist in the 
noblest, says Adams and Sons, the wouldpay actionneers. Her 
hair’s as brown as ever it was. And wiwy and wavy. Repose you 
now! Finn no more! 

For, be that samesake sibsubstitute of a hooky salmon, there’s 
already a big tody ram lad at random on the premises of his 

28 



haunt of the hungred bordles, as it is told me. Shop Illicit, 
flourishing like a lordmajor or a buaboabaybohm, litting flop 
a deadlop (aloose!) to lee but lifting a bennbranch a yardalong 
(iVoeh!) on the breezy side (for showm!), the height of Brew- 
ster’s chimpney and as broad below as Phineas Barnum; humph- 
ing his share of the showthers is senken on him he’s such a 
grandfallar, with a pocked wife in pickle that’s a flyfire and three 
lice nittle clinkers, two twilling bugs and one midgit pucelle. 
And aither he cursed and recursed and was everseen doing what 
your fourfootlers saw or he was never done seeing what you cool- 
pigeons know, weep the clouds aboon for smiledown witnesses, 
and that’ll do now about the fairyhees and the frailyshees. 
Though Eset flbble it to the zephiroth and Artsa zoom it round 
her heavens for ever. Creator he has created for his creatured 
ones a creation. White monothoid? Red theatrocrat.^ And all the 
pinkprophets cohalething? Very much so! But however ’twas 
’tis sure for one thing, what sherif Toragh voucher fors and 
Mapqiq makes put out, that the man, Humrae the Cheapner, 
Esc, overseen as we thought him, yet a worthy of the naym, 
came at this timecoloured place where we live in our paroqial 
fermament one tide on another, with a bumrush in a hull of a 
wherry, the twin turbane dhow. The Bey for Dybbling, this 
archipelago’s first visiting schooner, with a wicklowpattern 
waxenwench at her prow for a figurehead, the deadsea dugong 
updipdripping from his depths, and has been repreaching him- 
self like a fishmummer these siktyten years ever since, his shebi 
by his shide, adi and aid, growing hoarish under his turban and 
changing cane sugar into sethulose starch (Tuttut’s cess to him!) 
as also that, batin the bulkihood he bloats about when innebbi- 
ated, our old offender was humile, commune and ensectuous 
from his nature, which you may gauge after the bynames was 
put under him, in lashons of languages, (honnein suit and 
praisers be!) and, totalisating him, even hamissim of himashim 
that he, sober serious, he is ee and no counter he who will be 
ultimendly respunchable for the hubbub caused in Eden- 
borough. 


29 



Now (to forebare for ever solittle of Iris Trees and Lili O’Ran- 
gans), concerning the genesis of Harold or Humphrey Chimp- 
den’s occupational agnomen (we are back in the presurnames 
prodromarith period, of course just when enos chalked halltraps) 
and discarding once for all those theories from older sources which 
would link him back with such pivotal tincestors as the Glues, the 
Gravys, the Northeasts, the Ankers and the Earwickers of Sidles- 
ham in the Hundred of Manhood or proclaim him offsprout of 
vikings who had founded wapentake and seddled hem in Herrick 
or Eric, the best authenticated version, the Dumlat, read the 
Reading of Hofed-ben-Edar, has it that it was this "way. We are 
told how in the beginning it came to pass that like cabbaging 
Cincinnatus the grand old gardener was saving daylight under his 
redwoodtree one sultry sabbath afternoon. Hag Chivychas Eve, 
in prefall paradise peace by following his plough for rootles in the 
rere garden of mobhouse, ye olde marine hotel, when royalty was 
announced by runner to have been pleased to have halted itself on 
the highroad along which a leisureloving dogfox had cast fol- 
lowed, also at walking pace, by a lady pack of cocker spaniels. For- 
getful of all save his vassal’s plain fedty to the ethnarch Humphrey 
or Harold stayed not to yoke or saddle but stumbled out hotface 
as he was (his sweatful bandanna loose from his pocketcoat) hast- 
ing to the forecourts of his public in topee, surcingle, solascarf and 
plaid, plus foxirs, puttees and bulldog boots ruddled cinnabar with 
