exchanges, as Levi-Strauss would have it, than one of establishing a 
physical system that will express itself naturally in terms of debts. It 
seems to us very significant that Levi-Strauss himself invokes the 
co-ordinates of a physical system, although he sees this as nothing more 
than a metaphor. In the physical system in extension, something passes 
through that is of the nature of an energy flow (+- or -+), something 
does not pass or remains blocked (+ + or —), and something blocks, or 
on the contrary causes, passage. Something or someone. In this system 
in extension there is no primary filiation, nor is there a first generation or 
an initial exchange, but there are always and already alliances, at the 
same time as the filiations are extended, expressing both what must 
remain blocked in the filiation and what must pass through in the 
alliance. 

The essential is not that the signs change according to the sexes and 
the generations, but that one passes from the intensive to the extensive, 
that is to say, from an order of ambiguous signs to an order of signs that 
are changing but determined. It is here that resorting to myth is 
indispensable, not because the myth would be a transposed or even an 
inverse representation of real relations in extension, but because only 
the myth can determine the intensive conditions of the system (the 
system of production included) in conformity with indigenous thought 
and practice. That is why a text of Marcel Griaule's, which looks to myth 
for a principle that would explain the avunculate, seems decisive to us, 
and seems to avoid the reproach of idealism that usually greets this kind 
of attempt. We have a similar view of the recent article in which Adler 
and Cartry retum to the question.'* These authors are right in remarking 
that Levi-Strauss's kinship atom—with its four relationships: 
brother-sister, husband-wife, father-son, maternal uncle-sister's 
son—presents itself as a ready-made whole from which the mother as 
such is strangely excluded, although, depending on the circumstances, 
she can be more or less a "kinswoman" or more or less an "affine" in 
relation to her children. Now this is indeed where the myth takes root, 
the myth that does not express but conditions. As Griaule relates it, the 
Yourougou, breaking into the piece of placenta he has stolen, is like the 
brother of his mother, with whom he is united by that fact: "This 
individual went away into the distance carrying with him a part of the 
nourishing placenta, which is to say a part of his own mother. He saw 
this organ as his own and as forming a part of his own person, in such a 
way that he identified himself with the one who gave birth to him. She 
was the matrix of the world, and he considered himself to be placed on 
the same plane as she from the viewpoint of th e generations.. .. He 
senses unconsciously his symbolic membership in his mother's 
generation and his detachment 
from the real generation of which he is a member. . . . Being, according 
to him, of the same sub stance and generation a s his mother, he likens 
himself to a male twin of his genetrix, and the mythical rule of the union 
of two paired members proposes him as the ideal husband. Hence, in his 
capacity as pseudo brother to his genetrix, he should be in the position 
of his maternal uncle, the designated husband of this woman."4 

Doubtless all the dramatis personae will be found to come into play 
from this point on: mother, father, son, mother's brother, son's sister. 
But it is evident and striking that these are not persons. Their names do 
not designate persons, but rather the intensive variations of a "vibratory 
spiraling movement," inclusive disjunctions, necessarily twin states 
through which a subject passes on the cosmic egg. Everything must be 
interpreted in intensity. The egg and the placenta itself, swept by an 
unconscious life energy "susceptible to augmentation and diminution." 
The father is in no way absent. But Amma, the father and genitor, is 
himself a high intensive part, immanent to the placenta, inseparable 
from the twinness, which relates him to his feminine part. And if the 
Yourougou son carries away a part of the placenta in his turn, it is in an 
intensive relationship with another part that contains his own sister or 
twin sister. But, aiming too high, the part he carries away makes him the 
sister of his mother, who eminently replaces the sister, and to whom he 
becomes united by replacing Amma. In short, a whole world of 
ambiguous signs, included divisions and bisexual states. I am the son, 
and also my mother's brother and my sister's husband and my own 
father. Everything rests on the placenta, which has become the earth, 
the unengendered, the full body of antiproduction where the 
organs-partial objects of a sacrificed Nommo are attached. It is because 
the placenta, as a substance common to the mother and the child, a 
common part of their bodies, makes it such that these bodies are not like 
cause and effect, but are both products derived from this same 
substance, in relation to which the son is his mother's twin: such is 
indeed the axis of the Dogon myth related by Griaule. Yes, I have been 
my mother and I have been my son. It is rare that one sees myth and 
science saying the same thing from such a great distance: the Dogon 
narrative develops a mythical Weismannism, where the germinative 
plasma forms an immortal and continuous lineage that does not depend 
on bodies; on the contrary, the bodies of the parents as well as the 
children depend on it. Whence the distinction between two lines, the 
one continuous and germinal, but the other discontinuous and somatic, 
it alone being subjected to a succession of generations. (T. D. Lysenko 
employed a naturally Dogon tone, turning it back against Weismann, to 
reproach him for making the son the genetic or germinal brother of the 
mother: "The 
Morganists-Mendelians, following Weismann, start from the idea that the parents 
are not genetically the parents of their children; if we are to believe their doctrine, 
parents and children are brothers and sisters."'*) But the son is not somatically his 
mother's brother and twin. That is why he cannot marry her (bearing in mind what 
we said earlier to be the meaning of "that is why"). The one who should have 
married the mother was therefore the maternal uncle. The first consequence of 
this is that incest with the sister is not a substitute for incest with the mother, but 
on the contrary the intensive model of incest as a manifestation of the germinal 
lineage. Then again, Hamlet is not an extension of Oedipus, an Oedipus to the 
second degree; on the contrary, a negative or inverse Hamlet is primary in 
relation to Oedipus. The subject does not reproach the uncle for having done what 
he himself wanted to do; he reproaches him for not having done what he the son 
could not do. And why didn't the uncle marry the mother, his somatic sister? 
Because he must not, except in the name of this germinal filiation, marked by 
ambiguous signs of twinness and bisexuality, according to which the son could 
have done it as well, and could have been himself this uncle in an intense 
relationship with the mother-twin. The vicious circle of the germinal lineage 
closes (the primitive double bind): neither can the uncle marry his sister, the 
mother, nor from that moment can the son marry his own sister—the Yourougou 
female twin will be delivered over to the Nommos as a potential affine. The 
somatic order causes the whole intensive scale to collapse again. Actually, if the 
son cannot marry his mother, it is not because he is somatically from a different 
generation. Arguing against Malinowski, Levi-Strauss has demonstrated convinc- 
ingly that the mixing of generations was not in the least feared as such, and that 
the incest prohibition could not be explained in this manner.'° This is because the 
mixing of the generations in the son-mother case has the same effect as their 
correspondence in the case of the uncle-sister, that is, it testifies to one and the 
same intensive germinal filiation that must be repressed in both cases. In short, a 
somatic system in extension can constitute itself only insofar as the filiations 
become extended, correlatively to lateral alliances that become established. It is 
through the prohibition of incest with the sister that the lateral alliance is sealed; it 
is through the prohibition of incest with the mother that the filiation becomes 
extended. There we find no repression of the father, no foreclosure of the name of 
the father. The respective position of the mother or father as kin or affine, the 
patrilineal or matrilineal character of the filiation, and the patrilateral or 
matrilateral character of the marriage, are active elements of the repression, and 
not objects at which the repression is directed. It is not even the memory of 
filiation in 
general that is repressed by a memory of alliance. It is the great nocturnal 
memory of the intensive germinal filiation that is repressed for the sake of an 
extensive somatic memory, created from filiations that have become extended 
(patrilineal or rnatrilineal) and from the alliances that they imply. The entire 
Dogon mythology is a patrilineal version of the opposition between the two 
genealogies and the two filiations: in intensity and in extension, the intense 
germinal order and the extensive regime of the somatic generations. 

The system in extension is born of the intensive conditions that make it 
possible, but it reacts on them, cancels them, represses them, and allows them no 
more than a mythical expression. The signs cease to be ambiguous at the same 
time as they are determined in relation to the extended filiations and the lateral 
alliances: the disjunctions become exclusive, restrictive (the "either/or else" 
replaces the intense "either ... or ... or . . ."); the names, the appellations no 
longer designate intensive states, but discernible persons. Discernibility settles 
on the sister and the mother as prohibited spouses. The reason is that persons, 
with the names that now designate them, do not exist prior to the prohibitions 
that constitute them as such. Mother and sister do not exist prior to their 
prohibition as spouses. Robert Jaulin says it well: "The mythical discourse has as 
its theme the passage from indifference to incest to its prohibition. Implicit or 
explicit, this theme underlies all the myths; it is therefore a formal property of 
this language."'’ We must conclude that, strictly speaking, incest does not and 
cannot exist. We are always on this side of incest, in a series of intensities that is 
ignorant of discernible persons; or else beyond incest, in an extension that 
recognizes them, that constitutes them, but that does not constitute them without 
rendering them impossible as sexual partners. One can commit incest only after a 
series of substitutions that always moves us away from it, that is to say, with a 
person who is equivalent to the mother or the sister only by virtue of not being 
either: she who is discernible as a possible spouse. Such is the meaning of 
preferential marriage: the first incest that is permitted. But it is not by chance that 
this kind of marriage rarely occurs, as though it were still too close to the 
nonexistent impossible (for example, the preferential Dogon marriage with the 
uncle's daughter, she being equivalent to the aunt, who is herself equivalent to 
the mother). 

Griaule's article is without doubt the text most profoundly inspired by 
psychoanalysis in the whole of anthropology. Yet it leads to conclusions that 
cause the whole of Oedipus to shatter, because it is not content to pose the 
problem in extension, thereby assuming its solution. These are the conclusions 
drawn by Adler and Cartry: "It is customary 
to consider incestuous relations in myth either as the expression of the desire or 
the nostalgia for a world where such relations wouid be possible or would meet 
with indifference, or as the expression of a structural function of the inversion of 
the social rule, a function destined to found the prohibition and its transgression. 
... In both instances, one takes as something already constituted what is in fact 
the emergence of an order that the myth narrates and explains. In other 
words,one reasons as if the myth placed on the stage persons defined as father, 
mother, brother, and sister, whereas these roles belong to the order constituted by 
the prohibition . . . : incest does not exist."* Incest is a pure limit. Provided that 
two false beliefs concerning the limit are avoided: one that makes the limit a 
matrix or an origin, as though the prohibition proved that the thing was "first" 
desired as such; another that makes the limit a structural function, as though the 
supposedly "fundamental" relationship between desire and law were manifested 
in transgression. It is necessary to recall once more that the law proves nothing 
about an original reality of desire because it essentially disfigures the desired; 
and that the trangression proves nothing about a functional reality of the law 
because, far from being a mockery of the law, it is itself derisory in relation to 
what the law prohibits in reality (the reason why revolutions have nothing to do 
with transgressions). In short, the limit is neither a this-side-of nor a beyond: it is 
the boundary line between the two— Incest, that slandered shallow 
stream—always crossed already or not yet crossed. For incest is like this motion, 
it is impossible. And it is not impossible in the same sense that the Real would be 
impossible, but quite the contrary, in the sense that the Symbolic is. 

But what does it mean to say that incest is impossible? Isn't it possible to go 
to bed with one's sister or mother? And how do we dispense with the old 
argument: it must be possible since it is prohibited? The problem lies elsewhere. 
The possibility of incest would require both pers ons and n ames—son, sister, 
mother, brother, father. Now in the incestuous act we can have persons at our 
disposal, but they lose their names inasmuch as these names are inseparable from 
the prohibition that proscribes them as partners; or else the names subsist, and 
designate nothing more than prepersonal intensive states that could just as well 
"extend" to other persons, as when one calls his legitimate wife "mama," or one's 
sister his wife. It is in this sense that we said we are always on this side of it or 
beyond. Our mothers and our sisters melt in 


* Adler and Cartry (see reference note 13). Jacques Derrida wrote, in a commentary of Rousseau: "Before 
the feast there was no incest because there was no prohibition of incest. After the feast there is no longer 
any incest because it is prohibited. . . . The feast itself would be the incest itself if any such 
thing—itse/f/—could take place" (De la grammatologie [see reference note 53], pp. 372-77). 
our arms; their names slide on their persons like a stamp that is too wet. This is 
because one can never enjoy the person and the name at the same time—yvet this 
would be the condition for incest. Granted, incest is a lure, it is impossible. But 
the problem is only deferred. Is that not the nature of desire, that one desires the 
impossible? At least in this instance, the platitude is not even true. We are 
reminded how illegitimate it is to conclude from the prohibition anything 
regarding the nature of what is prohibited; for the prohibition proceeds by 
dishonoring the guilty, that is to say, by inducing a disfigured or displaced image 
of the thing that is really prohibited or desired. Indeed, this is how social 
repression prolongs itself by means of a psychic repression without which it 
would have no grip on desire. What is desired is the intense germinal or 
germinative flow, where one would look in vain for persons or even functions 
discernible as father, mother, son, sister, etc., since these names only designate 
intensive variations on the full body of the earth determined as the germen. It is 
always possible to use the term incest, as well as indifference to incest, for this 
regime composed of one and the same being or flow, varying in intensity 
according to inclusive disjunctions. But that is precisely the problem; one cannot 
confound incest as it would be in this intensive nonpersonal regime that would 
institute it, with incest as represented in extension in the state that prohibits it, and 
that defines it as a transgression against persons. Jung is therefore entirely correct 
in saying that the Oedipus complex signifies something altogether different from 
itself, and that in the Oedipal relation the mother is also the earth, and incest is an 
infinite renaissance. (He is wrong only in thinking that he has thus "transcended" 
sexuality.) The somatic complex refers to a germinal implex. Incest refers to a 
this-side-of that cannot be represented as such in the complex, since the complex 
is an element derived from this this-side-of. Incest as it is prohibited (the form of 
discernible persons) is employed to repress incest as it is desired (the substance of 
the intense earth). The intensive germinal flow is the representative of desire; it is 
against this flow that the repression is directed. The extensive Oedipal figure is its 
displaced represented (le represents deplace), the lure or fake image, born of 
repression, that comes to conceal desire. It matters little that this image is 
"impossible": it does its work from the moment that desire lets itself be caught as 
though by the impossible itself. You see, that is what you wanted! However it is 
this conclusion, going directly from the repression to the repressed, and from the 
prohibition to the prohibited, that already implies the whole paralogism of social 
repression. 
But why is the germinal implex or influx repressed, since it is nevertheless 

the territorial representative of desire? Because the thing it 
refers to, in its capacity as representative, is a flow that would not be codable, 
that would not let itself be coded—specifically, the terror of the primitive socius. 
No chain could be detached, nothing could be selected; nothing would pass from 
filiation to descent, but descent would be perpetually reduced to filiation in the 
act of re-engendering oneself; the signifying chain would not form any code, it 
would only emit ambiguous signs and be perpetually eroded by its own energetic 
support; what would flow on the full body of the earth would be as unfettered as 
the noncoded flows that shift and slide on the desert of a body without organs. 
For it is less a question of abundance or scarcity, of a spring or the exhaustion of 
a spring (even the drying up of a spring is a flow), than of what is codable or 
noncodable. The germinal flow is such that it amounts to the same to say that 
everything would pass or flow with it, or on the contrary, that everything would 
be blocked. For the flows to be codable, their energy must allow itself to be 
quantified and qualified; it is necessary that selections from the flows be made in 
relation to detachments from the chain: something must pass through but 
something must also be blocked, and something must block and cause to pass 
through. Now this is possible only in the system in extension that renders persons 
discernible, that makes a determinate use of signs, an exclusive use of the 
disjunctive syntheses, and a conjugal use of the connective syntheses. Such is 
indeed the meaning of the incest prohibition conceived as the establishment of a 
physical system in extension: one must look in each case for the part of the flow 
of intensity that passes through, for what does not pass, and for what causes 
passage or prevents it, according to the patrilateral or matrilateral nature of the 
marriages, according to the patrilineal or matrilineal nature of the lineages, 
according to the general regime of the extended filiations and the lateral alliances. 

Let us return to the Dogon preferential marriage as analyzed by Griaule: 
what is blocked is the relationship with the aunt as a substitute for the mother, in 
the form of a make-believe parent; what passes through is the relationship with 
the aunt's daughter as a substitute for the aunt, as the first possible or permitted 
incest; what does the blocking or causes passage is the maternal uncle. What 
passes through leads to—as compensation for what is blocked—a veritable 
surplus value of code, which falls to the uncle insofar as he causes passage, while 
he suffers a kind of "minus value" insofar as he does the blocking (thus the ritual 
thefts perpetrated by the nephews in the uncle's house, but also, as Griaule says, 
"the augmentation and fructification" of the uncle's possessions when the oldest 
of the nephews comes to live with him). The fundamental problem—who has the 
right to the matrimonial prestations in a given system?—cannot be resolved independently of the lines 
of passage and the lines of blockage, as if what was blocked or 
prohibited reappeared "in marriages in spectral form,"'* coming to 
demand its due. Loftier writes of a specific case: "Among the Mru, the 
patrilineal model predominates over the matrilineal tradition: the 
brother-sister relationship, which is transmitted from father to son and 
from mother to daughter, can be transmitted indefinitely through the 
father-son relationship, but not through the mother-daughter relation- 
ship, which terminates with the daughter's marriage. A married daughter 
transmits to her own daughter a new relationship, namely that which 
joins her to her own brother. At the same time, a daughter who marries 
becomes detached not from her brother's line, but solely from that of 
her mother's brother. The significance of the payments to the mother's 
brother upon the marriage of his niece can be understood only in the 
following way: the girl leaves the previous family group, to which her 
mother belongs. The niece becomes herself a mother and the point of 
departure for a new brother-sister relationship, on which a new alliance 
is founded."!? What is prolonged, what comes to a halt, what is 
detached, and the different relationships according to which these 
actions and passions are distributed, help us to understand the formation 
mechanism of the surplus value of code as an indispensable element of 
any coding of flows. 

We are now able to outline the various instances of territorial 
representation in the primitive socius. In the first place, the germinal 
influx of intensity conditions all representation: it is the representative of 
desire. But if it is termed representative, this is because it is equivalent 
to the noncodable, noncoded, or decoded flows. In this sense it implies, 
in its own way, the socius's limit, the limit or the negative of every 
socius; the repression of this limit is possible only to the extent that the 
representative itself undergoes a repression. This repression determines 
what part of the influx will pass through and what will not in the system 
in extension, what will remain blocked or stocked in the extended 
filiations, and on the contrary, what will move and flow following the 
relations of alliance, in such a way that the systematic coding of the 
flows will be carried out. We call this second instance—the repressing 
representation itself—alliance, since the filiations become extended only 
in terms of lateral alliances that measure their variable segments. 
Whence the importance of these "local lines" that Leach has 
identified—and which, two by two, organize the alliances and arrange 
(machine) the marriages. When we ascribed to them a perverse-normal 
activity, we meant that these local groups were the agents of repression, 
the great coders. Wherever men meet and assemble to take wives for 
themselves, to negotiate for them, to share them, etc., one recognizes 
the perverse tie of a primary homosexuality between local groups, 
between brothers-in-law, co-husbands, childhood partners. 

Underlining the universal fact that marriage is not an alliance 
between a man and a woman, but "an alliance between two families," "a 
transaction between men concerning women," Georges Devereux drew 
the correct conclusion of a basic homosexual motivation of a group 
character.”? Through women, men establish their own connections; 
through the man-woman disjunction, which is always the outcome of 
filiation, alliance places in connection men from different filiations. The 
question why a female homosexuality hasn't given rise to Amazon 
groups capable of negotiating for men perhaps finds its reply in 
women's affinity with the germinal influx, resulting in the enclosed 
position of women in the midst of extended filiations (filiation hysteria as 
opposed to alliance paranoia). Male homosexuality is therefore the 
representation of alliance that represses the ambiguous signs of intense 
bisexual filiation. However, Devereux seems to us to be wrong on two 
occasions. First, when he admits having recoiled too long before 
this—so serious (he says)—discovery of a homosexual representation 
(there we merely see a primitive version of the formula "All men are 
homosexuals," and to be sure, they are never more so than when they 
arrange marriages). Then again—and this is his most serious error— 
when he wants to make of this homosexuality of alliance a product of 
the Oedipus complex as something repressed. Alliance can never be 
deduced from the lines of filiation through the intermediary of Oedipus; 
on the contrary, alliance articulates them, impelled by the action of the 
local lines and their non-oedipal primary homosexuality. And if it is true 
that there exists an Oedipal or filiative homosexuality, this should be 
understood merely as a secondary reaction to this group homosexuality, 
non-oedipal at first. 

As for Oedipus in general, it is not the repressed—that is, the 
representative of desire, which is on this side of and completely ignorant 
of daddy-mommy. Nor is it the repressing representation, which is 
beyond, and which renders the persons discernible only by subjecting 
them to the homosexual rules of alliance. Incest is only the retroactive 
effect of the repressing representation on the repressed representative: 
the representation disfigures or displaces this representative against 
which it is directed; it projects onto the representative, categories, 
rendered discernible, that it has itself established; it applies to the 
representative terms that did not exist before the alliance organized the 
positive and the negative into a system in extension—the representation 
reduces the representative to what is blocked in this system. Hence 
Oedipus is indeed the limit, but the displaced limit that now passes into 
the interior of the socius. Oedipus is the baited image with which desire 
allows itself to be caught (That's what you wanted! The decoded flows 
were incest!). Then a long story begins, the story of oedipalization. But 
to be exact, everything begins in the mind of Laius, the old group 
homosexual, the pervert, who sets a trap for desire. For desire is that, 
too: a trap. Territorial representation comprises these three instances: 
the repressed repr esentative, the repressing representation, and the 
displaced represented. 
We are moving too fast, acting as if Oedipus were already 
installed within the savage territorial machine. However, as Nietzsche 
says with regard to bad conscience, such a plant does not grow on that 
kind of terrain. This is explained by the fact that the necessary 
conditions for Oedipus as a "familial complex," existing in the frame- 
work of the familialism suited to psychiatry and psychoanalysis, are 
obviously not present. Primitive families constitute a praxis, a politics, a 
strategy of alliances and filiations; formally, they are the driving 
elements of social reproduction; they have nothing to do with an 
expressive microcosm; in these families the father, the mother, and the 
sister always also function as something other than father, mother, or 
sister. And in addition to the father, the mother, etc., there is the affine, 
who constitutes the active, concrete reality and makes the relations 
between families coextensive with the social field. It would not even be 
exact to say that the family determinations burst apart at every corner of 
this field and remain attached to strictly social determinations, since 
both kinds of determinations form one and the same component in the 
territorial machine. Since familial reproduction is not yet a simple 
means, or a material at the service of a social reproduction of another 
nature, there is no possibility of reducing (rabattre sur) social reproduc- 
tion to familial reproduction, nor is it possible to establish one-to-one 
relations between the two that would confer on any familial complex 
whatever an expressive value and an apparent autonomous form. On the 
contrary, it is evident that the individual in the family, however young, 
directly invests a social, historical, economic, and political field that is 
not reducible to any mental structure or affective constellation. That is 
why, when one considers pathological cases and processes of cure in 
primitive societies, it seems to us entirely insufficient to compare them 
with psychoanalytic procedure by relating them to criteria borrowed 
from the latter: for example, a familial complex, even if it differs from 
our own, or cultural material (des con tenus c ulturels), even if it is 
brought into relation with an ethnic unconscious—as seen in attempted 
parallelisms between the psychoanalytic cure and the shamanistic cure 
(Devereux, Levi-Strauss). Our definition of schizoanalysis focused on 
two aspects: the destruction of the expressive pseudo forms of the 
unconscious, and the discovery of desire's unconscious investments of 
the social field. It is from this point of view that we must consider many 
primitive cures; they are schizoanalysis in action. 

genie social production. In the first place, it is futile to affirm that the 
family expresses more profound social contradictions, for one confers 
on it a value as microcosm, gives it the role of a necessary relay for the 
transformation of social into mental alienation; what is more, one acts as 
if the libido did not directly invest the social contradictions as such, and 
in order to awaken, needed these contradictions translated according to 
the family code. By that very fact, one has already substituted a familial 
causation or expression for social production, and finds oneself back 
within the categories of idealist psychiatry. Whatever one's stake in all 
of this, society is thereby justified: all that remains to contest it with are 
vague considerations on the sick nature of the family, or more generally 
still, considerations on the modern way of life. One has therefore 
glossed over what is essential: that society is schizophrenizing at the 
level of its infrastructure, its mode of production, its most precise 
capitalist economic circuits; and that the libido invests this social field, 
not in a form where it would be expressed and translated by means of a 
family-microcosm, but in the form where it causes its nonfamilial breaks 
and flows, invested as such, to enter into the family; hence, that the 
familial investments are always a result of the sociodesiring libidinal 
investments, which alone are primary; finally, that mental alienation 
refers directly to these investments and is no less social than social 
alienation, which refers for its part to the preconscious investments of 
interest. 

Not only does one thereby fail to correctly evaluate social produc- 
tion in its pathogenic nature, but secondly, one also fails to understand 
the schizophrenic process in its relationship with the schizophrenic as a 
sick person. For one attempts to neuroticize everything. And doubtless 
one thus conforms to the family's mission, which is to produce neurotics 
by means of its oedipalization, its system of impasses, its delegated 
psychic repression, without which social repression would never find 
docile and resigned subjects, and would not succeed in choking off the 
flows' lines of escape. We don't feel any need to attach the slightest 
importance to psychoanalysis's claim to cure neurosis, since, for it, 
curing consists of an infinite maintenance, an infinite resignation, an 
accession to desire by way of castration—and of the establishment of 
conditions where the subject is able to spread, to pass the sickness to his 
offspring, rather than dying celibate, impotent, and masturbatory. Again, 
perhaps it will be discovered that the only incurable is the neu rotic— 
whence interminable psychoanalysis. It is a cause for self-congratulation 
when one succeeds in transforming a schizo into a paranoiac or a 
neurotic. Such a _ transformation perhaps’ entails many 
misunderstandings. For the schizo is the one who escapes all Oedipal, 


familial, and personological references—I'll no longer say me, I'll no longer say 
daddy-mommy—and he keeps his word. Now the question is, first, if that is what 
makes him ill, or if on the contrary that is the schizophrenic process, which is not 
an illness, not a "breakdown" but a "breakthrough," however distressing and 
adventurous: breaking through the wall or the limit separating us from 
desiring-production, causing the flows of desire to circulate. Laing's importance 
lies in the fact that, starting from certain intuitions that remained ambiguous in 
Jaspers, he was able to indicate the incredible scope of this voyage. With the 
result that schizoanalysis would come to nothing if it did not add to its positive 
tasks the constant destructive task of disintegrating the normal ego. Lawrence, 
Miller, and then Laing were able to demonstrate this in a profound way: it is 
certain that neither men nor women are clearly defined personalities, but rather 
vibrations, flows, schizzes, and "knots." The ego refers to personological 
co-ordinates from which it results, persons in their turn refer to familial 
co-ordinates, and we shall see what the familial constellation refers to in order to 
produce individuals in its turn. The task of schizoanalysis is that of tirelessly 
taking apart egos and their presuppositions; liberating the prepersonal 
singularities they enclose and repress; mobilizing the flows they would be 
capable of transmitting, receiving, or intercepting; establishing always further 
and more sharply the schizzes and the breaks well below conditions of identity; 
and assembling the desiring-machines that coun-tersect everyone and group 
everyone with others. For everyone is a little group (un groupuscule) and must 
live as such—or rather, like the Zen tea box broken in a hundred places, whose 
every crack is repaired with cement made of gold, or like the church tile whose 
every fissure is accentuated by the layers of paint or lime covering it (the 
contrary of castration, which is unified, molarized, hidden, scarred, 
unproductive). Schizoanalysis is so named because throughout its entire process 
of treatment it schizophrenizes, instead of neuroticizing like psychoanalysis. 

What makes the schizophrenic ill, since the cause of the illness is not 
schizophrenia as a process? What transforms the breakthrough into a breakdown? 
It is the constrained arrest of the process, or its continuation in the void, or the 
way in which it is forced to take itself as a goal. We have seen in this sense how 
social production produced the sick schizo: constructed on decoded flows that 
constitute its profound tendency or its absolute limit, capitalism is constantly 
counteracting this tendency, exorcizing this limit by substituting internal relative 
limits for it that it can reproduce on an ever expanding scale, or an axiomatic of 
flows that subjects this tendency to the harshest forms of despotism and 

repression. It is in this sense that contradiction installs itself not only at the level 
of the flows that traverse the social field, but at the level of their libidinal 
investments, which form the flows' constituent parts—between the paranoiac 
reconstruction of the Urstaat and the positive schizophrenic lines of escape. 
Thereafter three possibilities emerge. First, the process is arrested, the limit of 
desiring-production is displaced, travestied, and now passes over into the Oedipal 
subaggregate. So the schizo is effectively neuroticized, and it is this 
neuroticization that constitutes his illness, for in any case neuroticization precedes 
neurosis, the latter being the result of the former. Or, second, the schizo resists 
neuroticization and oedipalization. Even the use of modern resources, the pure 
analytic scene, the symbolic phallus, structural foreclosure, and the name of the 
father do not succeed in "taking" on him. (Here again, in these modern resources, 
what a strange use is made of Lacan's discoveries—Lacan, who was the first on 
the contrary to schizophrenize the analytic field!) In this second case the process, 
confronted with a neuroticization that it resists, but that suffices to block it on all 
sides, is led to take itself as an end: a psychotic is produced who escapes the 
delegated repression properly speaking only to take refuge in primal repression, 
closing the body without organs around itself and silencing his desiring-machines. 
Catatonia rather than neurosis, catatonia rather than Oedipus and castration—but 
it is still an effect of neuroticization, a countereffect of one and the same illness. 
Or—the third case—the process sets to turning round in the void. Since it is now a 
process of deterritorialization,itcan no longer search for and create its new land. 
Confronted with Oedipal reterritorialization—an archaic, residual, ludicrously 
restricted sphere—it will form still more artificial lands that, barring an accident, 
accommodate themselves in one way or another to the established order: the 
pervert. After all, Oedipus was already an artificial sphere, O family! And the 
resistance to Oedipus, the return to the body without organs was still an artificial 
sphere, O asylum! So that everything is perversion. But everything is psychosis 
and paranoia as well, since everything is set in motion by the counterinvestment 
of the social field that produces the psychotic. Again, everything is neurosis, since 
it is an outcome of the neuroticization that runs counter to the process. Finally, 
everything is process, schizophrenia as process, since it is against schizophrenia 
that everything is measured; its peculiar trajectory, its neurotic arrests, its perverse 
continuations in the void, its psychotic finalizations. 

Inasmuch as Oedipus arises out of an application of the entire social field to 
the finite familial figure, it does not imply just any investment of this field by the 
libido, but a very particular investment that renders this 

application possible and necessary. That is why Oedipus seemed to us a 
paranoiac's idea before being a neurotic's feeling. In fact, the paranoiac 
investment consists in subordinating molecular desiring-production to 
the molar aggregate it forms on one surface of the full body without 
organs, enslaving it by that very fact to a form of socius that exercises 
the function of a full body under determinate conditions. The paranoiac 
engineers masses, and is continually forming large aggregates, inventing 
heavy apparatuses for the regimentation and the repression of the 
desiring-machines. Doubtless it is not hard for him to appear reasonable, 
by appealing to collective interests and goals, reforms to be brought 
about, sometimes even revolutions to be made. But madness breaks 
through, beneath the reformist investments, or the reactionary and 
fascist investments, which assume a reasonable appearance only in the 
light of the preconscious, and which animate the strange discourse of an 
organization of society. Even its language is demented. Listen to a 
Secretary of State, a general, the boss of a firm, a technician. Listen to 
the great paranoiac din beneath the discourse of reason that speaks for 
others, in the name of the silent majority. The explanation is that, 
beneath preconscious goals and interests, a uniquely unconscious 
investment rises up that embraces a full body for itself, independently of 
all aims, and a degree of development for itself, independently of all 
reason: that very degree and no other, don't take another step; that very 
socius and no other, hands off. A disinterested love of the molar 
machine, a veritable enjoyment, with all the hatred it contains for those 
who do not submit to the molar machine: the entire libido is at stake. 
From the point of view of libidinal investment, it is clear that there are 
few differences between a reformist, a fascist, and sometimes even 
certain revolutionaries, who are distinguished from one another only in a 
preconscious fashion, but whose unconscious investments are of the 
same type, even when they do not adopt the same body. We can't go 
along with Maud Mannoni when she sees the first historical act of 
antipsychiatry in the 1902 decision granting Judge Schreber his liberty 
and responsibility, despite the recognized continuation of his delirious 
ideas."* There is room for doubting that the decision would have been 
the same if Schreber had been schizophrenic rather than paranoiac, if he 
had taken himself for a black or a Jew rather than a pure Aryan, if he had 
not proved himself so competent in the management of his wealth, and if 
in his delirium he had not displayed a taste for the socius of an already 
fascisizing libidinal investment. As machines of subjugation, the social 
machines give rise to incomparable loves, which are not explained by 
their interests, since interests derive from them instead. At the deepest 
level of society there is delirium, because delirium is the investment of a 


socius as such, beyond goals. And it is not merely the despot's body to which the 
paranoiac lovingly aspires, but the body of capital-money as well, or a new 
revolutionary body, the moment it becomes a form of power and gregariousness. 
To be possessed by this body as well as possessing it; to engineer subjugated 
groups for which one becomes so many cogs and parts; to insert oneself into the 
machine to find there at last the enjoyment of the mechanisms that pulverize 
desire—such is the paranoiac experience. 

Now Oedipus appears to be a relatively innocent thing, a private kind of 
thing to be treated in the analyst's office. But we ask precisely what type of 
unconscious social investment Oedipus presupposes, since psychoanalysis does 
not invent Oedipus; psychoanalysis is content to live off Oedipus, to develop and 
promote it, and to give it a marketable medical form. Inasmuch as the paranoiac 
investment enslaves desiring-production, it is very important for it that the limit 
of this production be displaced, and that it pass to the interior of the socius, as a 
limit between two molar aggregates, the social aggregate of departure and the 
familial subaggregate of arrival that supposedly corresponds to it, in such a way 
that desire is caught in the trap of a familial psychic repression that comes to 
double the weight of social repression. The paranoiac applies his delirium to the 
family—and to his own family—but it is first of all a delirium of races, ranks, 
classes, and universal history. In short, Oedipus implies within the unconscious 
itself an entire reactionary and paranoiac investment of the social field that acts 
as an oedipalizing factor, and that can fuel as well as counteract the preconscious 
investments. From the standpoint of schizoanalysis, the analysis of Oedipus 
therefore consists in tracing back from the son's confused feelings to the delirious 
ideas or the lines of investment of the parents, of their internalized representa- 
tives and their substitutes: not in order to attain the whole of a family, which is 
never more than a locus of application and reproduction, but in order to attain the 
social and political units of libidinal investment. With the result that all 
familialist psychoanalysis—with the psychoanalyst at the fore—warrants a 
schizoanalysis. Only one way to spend time on the couch: schizoanalyze the 
psychoanalyst. 

We have maintained throughout that, by dint of their difference in nature 
with regard to the preconscious investments of interest, the unconscious 
investments of desire had sexuality as an index in their social scope itself. Which 
does not mean, of course, that one need only invest the poor woman, the maid, or 
the whore to have revolutionary loves. There are no revolutionary or reactionary 
loves, which is to say that loves are not defined by their objects, any more than 
by the sources and aims of the desires and the drives. But there are forms of love 
that 

are the indices of the reactionary or the revolutionary character of the investment 
made by the libido of a sociohistorical or geographic field, from which the loved 
and desired beings receive their definition. Oedipus is one of these forms, the 
index of a reactionary investment. And the well-defined figures, the 
well-identified roles, the clearly distinct persons, in short the image-models of 
which Lawrence spoke—mother, fiancee, mistress, wife, saint or whore, princess 
and maid, rich woman and poor woman—are dependents of Oedipus, even in 
their reversals and their substitutions. The very form of these images, their 
configurations, and the whole of their possible relations are the product of a code, 
or of a social axiomatic to which the libido addresses itself through them. 
Persons are simulacra derived from a social aggregate whose code is 
unconsciously invested for itself. That is why love and desire exhibit reactionary, 
or else revolutionary, indices; the latter emerge on the contrary as nonfigurative 
indices, where persons give way to decoded flows of desire, to lines of vibration, 
and where the cross-sections of images give way to schizzes that constitute 
singular points, points-signs with several dimensions causing flows to circulate 
rather than canceling them. Nonfigurative loves, indices of a revolutionary 
investment of the social field, and which are neither Oedipal nor pre-oedipa! 
since it all amounts to the same thing, but innocently anoedipal, and which give 
the revolutionary the right to say, "Oedipus? Never heard of it." Undoing the 
form of persons and the ego, not in behalf of a pre-oedipal undifferentiated, but 
in behalf of anoedipal lines of singularities, the desiring-machines. For there is 
indeed a sexual revolution, which does not concern objects, aims, or sources, but 
only machinic forms or indices. 

The fourth and final thesis of schizoanalysis is therefore the distinction 
between two poles of social libidinal investment: the paranoiac, reactionary, and 
fascisizing pole, and the schizoid revolutionary pole. Once again, we see no 
objection to the use of terms inherited from psychiatry for characterizing social 
investments of the unconscious, insofar as these terms cease to have a familial 
connotation that would make them into simple projections, and from the moment 
delirium is recognized as having a primary social content that is immediately 
adequate. The two poles are defined, the one by the enslavement of production 
and the desiring-machines to the gregarious aggregates that they constitute on a 
large scale under a given form of power or selective sovereignty; the other by the 
inverse subordination and the overthrow of power. Tlie one by these molar 
structured aggregates that crush singularities, select them, and regularize those 
that they retain in codes or axiomatics; the other by the molecular multiplicities 
of singularities 

that on the contrary treat the large aggregates as so many useful materials for their 
own elaborations. The one by the lines of integration and territorialization that 
arrest the flows, constrict them, turn them back, break them again according to 
the limits interior to the system, in such a way as to produce the images that come 
to fill the field of immanence peculiar to this system or this aggregate, the other 
by lines of escape that follow the decoded and deterritorialized flows, inventing 
their own nonfigurative breaks or schizzes that produce new flows, always 
breaching the coded wall or the territorialized limit that separates them from 
desiring-production. And to summarize all the preceding determinations: the one 
is defined by subjugated groups, the other by subject-groups. It is true that we 
still run up against all kinds of problems concerning these distinctions. In what 
sense does the schizoid investment constitute, to the same extent as the other one, 
a real investment of the sociohistorical field, and not a simple Utopia? In what 
sense are the lines of escape collective, positive, and creative? What is the 
relationship between the two unconscious poles, and what is their relationship 
with the preconscious investments of interest? 

We have seen that the unconscious paranoiac investment was grounded in 
the socius itself as a full body without organs, beyond the preconscious aims and 
interests that it assigns and distributes. The fact remains that such an investment 
does not endure the light of day: it must always hide under assignable aims or 
interests presented as the general aims and interests, even though in reality the 
latter represent only the members of the dominant class or a fraction of this class. 
How could a formation of sovereignty, a fixed and determinate gregarious 
aggregate, endure being invested for their brute force, their violence, and their 
absurdity? They would not survive such an investment. Even the most overt 
fascism speaks the language of goals, of law, order, and reason. Even the most 
insane capitalism speaks in the name of economic rationality. And this is 
necessarily the case, since it is in the irrationality of the full body that the order of 
reasons is inextricably fixed, under a code, under an axiomatic that determines it. 
What is more, the bringing to light of the unconscious reactionary investment as if 
devoid of an aim, would be enough to transform it completely, to make it pass to 
the other pole of the libido, i.e., to the schizorevolutionary pole, since this action 
could not be accomplished without overthrowing power, without reversing 
subordination, without returning production itself to desire: for it is only desire 
that lives from having no aim. Molecular desiring-production would regain its 
liberty to master in its turn the molar aggregate under an overturned form of 
power or Sovereignty. That is why Klossowski, who has taken the theory of the 
two poles of investment the furthest, but still 

within the category of an active Utopia, is able to write: "Every sovereign 
formation would thus have to foresee the destined moment of its disintegration. . 
. . No formation of sovereignty, in order to crystal-ize, will ever endure this prise 
de conscience: for as soon as this formation becomes conscious of its immanent 
disintegration in the individuals who compose it, these same individuals 
decompose it... . By way of the circuitous route of science and art, human 
beings have many times revolted against this fixity; this capacity 
notwithstanding, the gregarious impulse in and by science caused this rupture to 
fail. The day humans are able to behave as intentionless phenomena—for every 
intention at the level of the human being always obeys the laws of its 
conservation, its continued existence—on that day a new creature will declare 
the integrity of existence. . . . Science demonstrates by its very method that the 
means that it constantly elaborates do no more than reproduce, on the outside, an 
interplay of forces by themselves without aim or end whose combinations obtain 
such and such a result. . . . However, no science can develop outside a 
constituted social grouping. In order to prevent science from calling social 
groups back in question, these groups take science back in hand. . . [integrate it] 
into the diverse industrial schemes; its autonomy appears strictly inconceivable. 
A conspiracy joining together art and science presupposes a rupture of all our 
institutions and a total upheaval of the means of production. ... If some 
conspiracy, according to Nietzsche's wish, were to use science and art in a plot 
v/hose ends were no less suspect, industrial society would seem to foil this 
conspiracy in advance by the kind of mise en scene it offers for it, under pain of 
effectively suffering what this conspiracy reserves for this society: i.e., the 
breakup of the institutional structures that mask the society into a plurality of 
experimental spheres finally revealing the true face of modernity—an ultimate 
phase that Nietzsche saw as the end result of the evolution of societies. In this 
perspective, art and science would then emerge as sovereign formations that 
Nietzsche said constituted the object of his countersociology—art and science 
establishing themselves as dominant powers, on the ruins of institutions."“” 

Why this appeal to art and science, in a world where scientists and 
technicians and even artists, and science and art themselves, work so closely 
with the established sovereignties—if only because of the structures of 
financing? Because art, as soon as it attains its own grandeur, its own genius, 
creates chains of decoding and deterritorializa-tion that serve as the foundation 
for desiring-machines, and make them function. Take the example of the 
Venetian School in painting: at the same time that Venice develops the most 
powerful commodity capitalism, bordering an Urstaat, that grants it a large degree of autonomy, its painting 
apparently molds itself to a Byzantine code where even the colors and the lines 
are subordinated to a signifier that determines their hierarchy as a vertical order. 
But toward the middle of the fifteenth century, when Venetian capitalism 
confronts the first signs of its decline, something breaks out in this painting: what 
would appear to be another world opens up, an other art, where the lines are 
deterritorialized, the colors are decoded, and now only refer to the relations they 
entertain among themselves, and with one another. A horizontal or transverse 
organization of the canvas is born, with lines of escape or breakthrough. Christ's 
body is engineered on all sides and in all fashions, pulled in all directions, 
playing the role of a full body without organs, a locus of connection for all the 
machines of desire, a locus of sadomasochistic exercises where the artist's joy 
breaks free. Even homosexual Christs. Organs become direct powers of the body 
without organs, and emit flows on it that the myriad wounds, such as Saint 
Sebastian's arrows, come to cut and cut again in such a way as to produce other 
flows. Persons and organs cease to be coded according to hierarchized collective 
investments; each person, each organ has a merit all its own, and tends to its own 
affairs: the infant Jesus looks from one side while the Virgin Mary listens from 
the other, Jesus stands for all the desiring children, the Virgin stands for all the 
desiring women, a joyous activity of profanation extends beneath this generalized 
privatization. A painter such as Tintoretto paints the creation of the world like a 
race represented in its whole length with God Himself on the sidelines, giving the 
starting signal across the track as the figures speed away in a transversal 
direction. Suddenly a painting by Lotto surges forth that could just as easily be 
from the nineteenth century. And of course this decoding of the flows of painting, 
these schizoid lines of escape that form desiring-machines on the horizon, are 
taken up again in scraps from the old code, or else introduced into new codes, 
and first of all into a properly pictorial axiomatic that chokes off the escapes, 
closes the whole constellation to the transversal relations between lines and 
colors, and reduces it to archaic or new territorialities (perspective, for example). 
So true is it that the movement of deterritorialization can only be grasped as the 
reverse side of territorialities, even the residual, artificial, or factitious ones. But 
at least something arose whose force fractured the codes, undid the signifiers, 
passed under the structures, set the flows in motion, and effected breaks at the 
limits of desire: a breakthrough. It does not suffice to say that the nineteenth 
century is already there in the middle of the fifteenth, since the same would have 
to be said of the Byzantine code underneath which strange liberated flows were 
already circulating. We 
have seen this in the case of the painter Turner, and his most accom- 
plished paintings that are sometimes termed "incomplete": from the 
moment there is genius, there is something that belongs to no school, no 
period, something that achieves a breakthrough—art as a process 
without goal, but that attains completion as such. 

The codes and their signifiers, the axiomatics and their structures, 
the imaginary figures that come to occupy them as well as the purely 
symbolic relationships that gauge them, constitute properly aesthetic 
molar formations that are characterized by goals, schools, and periods. 
They relate these aesthetic formations to greater social aggregates, 
finding in them a field of application, and everywhere enslave art to a 
great castrating machine of sovereignty. There is a pole of reactionary 
investment for art as well, a somber paranoiac-Oedipal-narcissistic 
organization. A foul use of painting, centering around the dirty little 
secret, even in abstract painting where the axiomatic does without 
figures: a style of painting whose secret essence is scatological, an 
oedipalizing painting, even when it has broken with the Holy Trinity as 
the Oedipal image, a neurotic or neuroticizing painting that makes the 
process into a goal or an arrest, an interruption, or a continuation in the 
void. This style of painting flourishes today, under the usurped name of 
modern painting—a poisonous flower—and brought one of Lawrence's 
heroes to speak much like Henry Miller of the need to have done with 
pouring out one's merciful and pitiful guts, these "flows of corrugated 
iron."** The productive breaks projected onto the enormous unproductive 
cleavage of castration, the flows that have become flows of "corrugated 
iron," the openings blocked on all sides. And perhaps this, as we have 
seen, is where we find the commodity value of art and literature: a 
paranoiac form of expression that no longer even needs to "signify" its 
reactionary libidinal investments, since these investments function on 
the contrary as its signifier; an Oedipal form of content that no longer 
even needs to represent Oedipus, since the "structure" suffices. But on 
the other, the schizorevolutionary, pole, the value of art is no longer 
measured except in terms of the decoded and deterritorial-ized flows 
that it causes to circulate beneath a signifier reduced to silence, beneath 
the conditions of identity of the parameters, across a structure reduced to 
impotence; a writing with pneumatic, electronic, or gaseous indifferent 
supports, and that appears all the more difficult and intellectual to 
intellectuals as it is accessible to the infirm, the illiterate, and the 
schizos, embracing all that flows and counterfiows, the gushings of 
mercy and pity knowing nothing of meanings and aims (the Artaud 
experiment, the Burroughs experiment). It is here that art accedes to its 
authentic modernity, which simply consists in liberating what was present in art 
from its beginnings, but was hidden underneath aims and objects, even if 
aesthetic, and underneath recodings or axiomatics: the pure process that fulfills 
itself, and that never ceases to reach fulfillment as it proceeds—art as 
"experimentation."* 

And the same will be said of science: the decoded flows of knowledge are 
first bound in the properly scientific axiomatics, but these axiomatics express a 
bipolar hesitation. One of the poles is the great social axiomatic that retains from 
science what must be retained in terms of market needs and zones of technical 
innovation: the great social aggregate that makes the scientific subaggregates into 
so many applications that are characteristic of and that correspond to it—in short, 
the set of methods that is not content to bring scientists back to "reason" but 
anticipates any deviance on their part, imposes a goal on them, and makes 
scientists and science into an agency perfectly subjugated to the formation of 
sovereignty (for example, the way in which nondeterminism was only tolerated to 
a point, then ordered to make its peace with determinism). But the other pole is 
the schizoid pole, in whose proximity flows of knowledge schizophrenize, and not 
only flee across the social axiomatic, but pass beyond their own axiomatics, 
generating increasingly deterritorialized signs, figures-schizzes that are no longer 
either figurative or structured, and reproduce or produce an interplay of 
phenomena without aim or end: science as experimentation, as previously 
defined. In this domain as in the others, isn't there a properly libidinal conflict 
between a paranoiac-Oedipalizing element of science, and a schizorevolutionary 
element? That very conflict that leads Lacan to say there exists a drama for the 
scientist. ("J. R. Mayer, Cantor, I will not draw up an honor roll of these dramas 
that sometimes lead to madness . . . , a list that could not include itself in Oedipus, 
unless it were to call Oedipus in question."” Since, in point of fact, Oedipus does 
not intervene in these dramas as a familial figure or even as a mental structure; its 
intervention is determined by an axiomatic acting as an oedipalizing factor, 
resulting in a specifically scientific Oedipus.) And in contrast to Lautreamont's 
song that rises up around the paranoiac-Oedipal-narcissistic pole—"O rigorous 
mathematics... . Arithmetic! algebra! geometry! imposing trinity'.luminous 


*See ail of John Cage's work, and his book Silence (Middletown, Conn.: Wesleyan University Press, 1961): 
"The word experimental is apt, providing it is understood not as descriptive of an act to be later judged in 
terms of success and failure, but simply as of an act the outcome of which is unknown" (p. 13). And 
regarding the active or practical notions of decoding, of deconstruction, and of the work as a process, the 
reader is referred to the excellent commentaries of Daniel Charles on Cage, "Musique et anarchie," in 
Bulletin de la Societefr ancaise de philosophie, Jul)' 1971, where there is violent anger on the part of some 
participants in the discussion, reacting to the idea that there is no longer any code. 
triangle!""—there is another song: 0 schizophrenic mathematics, uncon- 
trollable and mad desiring-machines! 

In the capitalist formation of sovereignty—the full body of 
capital-money as the socius—the great social axiomatic has replaced the 
territorial codes and the despotic overcodings that characterized the 
preceding formations; and a molar, gregarious aggregate has formed, 
whose mode of subjugation has no equal. We have seen on what 
foundations this aggregate operated: a whole field of immanence that is 
reproduced on an always larger scale, that is continually multiplying its 
axioms to suit its needs, that is filled with images and with images of 
images, through which desire is determined to desire its own repression 
(imperialism); an unprecedented decoding and deterritorialization, 
which institutes a combination as a system of differential relations 
between the decoded and deterritorialized flows, in such a way that 
social inscription and repression no longer even need to bear directly 
upon bodies and persons, but on the contrary precede them (axiomatic: 
regulation and application); a surplus value determined as a surplus 
value of flux, whose extortion is not brought about by a simple 
arithmetical difference between two quantities that are homogeneous 
and belong to the same code, but precisely by differential relations 
between heterogeneous magnitudes that are not raised to the same 
power: a flow of capital and a flow of labor as human surplus value in the 
industrial essence of capitalism, a flow of financing and a flow of 
payment or incomes in the monetary inscription of capitalism, a market 
flow and a flow of innovation as machinic surplus value in the operation 
of capitalism (surplus value as the first aspect of its immanence), a ruling 
class that is all the more ruthless as it does not place the machine in its 
service,but is the servant of the capitalist machine: in this sense, a single 
class, content for its part with drawing incomes that, however enor- 
mous, differ only arithmetically from the workers' wages-income, 
whereas this class functions on a more profound level as creator, 
regulator, and guardian of the great nonappropriated, nonpossessed 
flow, incommensurable with wages and profits, which marks at every 
step along the way the interior limits of capitalism, their perpetual 
displacement, and their reproduction on an always larger scale (the 
movement of interior limits as the second aspect of the capitalist field of 
immanence, defined by the circular relationship "great flux of 
financing-reflux of incomes in wages-afflux of raw profit"); the effusion 
of antiproduction within production, as the realization or the absorption 
of surplus value, in such a way that the military, bureaucratic, and police 
apparatus finds itself grounded in the economy itself, which directly 
produces libidinal investments for the repression of desire 
(antiproduc-tion as the third aspect of capitalist immanence, expressing 
the twofold nature of capitalism: production for production's sake, but 
under the conditions of capital). 

There is not one of these aspects—not the least operation, the least 
industrial or financial mechanism—that does not reveal the insanity of 
the capitalist machine and the pathological character of its rationality: 
not at all a false rationality, but a true rationality of this pathological 
state, this insanity, "the machine works too, believe me". The capitalist 
machine does not run the risk of becoming mad, it is mad from one end 
to the other and from the beginning, and this is the source of its 
rationality. Marx's black humor, the source of Capital, is his fascination 
with such a machine: how it came to be assembled, on what foundation 
of decoding and deterritorialization; how it works, always more decod- 
ed, always more deterritorialized; how its operation grows more relent- 
less with the development of the axiomatic, the combination of the 
flows; how it produces the terrible single class of gray gentlemen who 
keep up the machine; how it does not run the risk of dying all alone, but 
rather of making us die, by provoking to the very end investments of 
desire that do not even go by way of a deceptive and subjective 
ideology, and that lead us to cry out to the very end, Long live capital in 
all its reality, in alt its objective dissimulation! Except in ideology, there 
has never been a humane, liberal, paternal, etc., capitalism. Capitalism is 
defined by a cruelty having no parallel in the primitive system of cruelty, 
and by a terror having no parallel in the despotic regime of terror. Wage 
increases and improvements in the standard of living are realities, but 
realities that derive from a given supplementary axiom that capitalism is 
always capable of adding to its axiomatic in terms of an enlargement of 
its limits: let's create the New Deal; let's cultivate and recognize strong 
unions; let's promote participation, the single class; let's take a step 
toward Russia, which is taking so many toward us; etc. But within the 
enlarged reality that conditions these islands, exploitation grows con- 
stantly harsher, lack is arranged in the most scientific of ways, final 
solutions of the "Jewish problem" variety are prepared down to the last 
detail, and the Third World is organized as an integral part of capitalism. 
The reproduction of the interior limits of capitalism on an always wider 
scale has several consequences: it permits increases and improvements 
of standards at the center, it displaces the harshest forms of exploitation 
from the center to the periphery, but also multiplies enclaves of 
overpopulation in the center itself, and easily tolerates the so-called 
socialist formations. (It is not kibbutz-style socialism that troubles the 
Zionist state, just as it is not Russian socialism that troubles world 
capitalism.) There is no metaphor here: the factories are prisons, they do 
not resemble prisons, they are prisons. 

Everything in the system is insane: this is because the capitalist 
machine thrives on decoded and deterritorialized flows; it decodes and 
deterritorializes them still more, but while causing them to pass into an 
axiomatic apparatus that combines them, and at the points of combina- 
tion produces pseudo codes and artificial reterritorializations. It is in this 
sense that the capitalist axiomatic cannot but give rise to new territorial- 
ities and revive a new despotic Urstaat. The great mutant flow of capital 
is pure deterritorialization, but it performs an equivalent 
reterritorializa-tion when converted into a reflux of means of payment. 
The Third World is deterritorialized in relation to the center of 
capitalism but belongs to capitalism, being a pure peripheral 
territoriality of capitalism. The system teems with preconscious 
investments of class and of interest. And capitalists first have an interest 
in capitalism. A statement as commonplace as this is made for another 
purpose: capitalists have an interest in capitalism only through the 
tapping of profits that they extract from it. But no matter how large the 
extraction of profits, it does not define capitalism. And for what does 
define capitalism, for what conditions profit, theirs is an investment of 
desire whose nature— unconscious-Ubidinal—is altogether different, 
and is not simply explained by the conditioned profits, but on the 
contrary itself explains that a small-time capitalist, with no great profits 
or hopes, fully maintains the entirety of his libidina! investments: the 
libido investing the great flow that is not convertible as such, not 
appropriated as such—"nonpossession and nonwealth," in the words of 
Bernard Schmitt, who among modern economists has for us the 
incomparable advantage of offering a delirious interpretation of an 
unequivocally delirious economic system (at least he goes all the way). 
In short, a truly unconscious libido, a disinterested love: this machine is 
fantastic. 

If one keeps in mind the tautological statement made above, one 
can then understand that people whose preconscious investments of 
interest do not, or should not, go in the direction of capitalism, can 
maintain an unconscious Sibidinal investment consonant with capitalism, 
or that scarcely threatens it. In the first case, they confine and localize 
their preconscious interest in wage increases and the improvement of 
the standard of living; powerful organizations represent them, which get 
nasty as soon as the nature of their aims is questioned ("It's clear that 
you're not workers, you have no idea whatsoever of real struggles, let's 
attack profits for a better management of the system, vote for a clean 
Paris—Welcome. Mister Brezhnev"). And how, indeed, could one fail to 
find one's interest in the hole where one has sunk it, at the heart of the 
capitalist system? Or else, in the second case, there is truly a new 
investment of interest, new aims that presuppose another body than that 
of capital-money; those exploited become conscious of their 
precon-scious interest, and this interest is truly revolutionary—a major 
break from the standpoint of the preconscious. 

But it is not enough for the libido to invest a new social body 
corresponding to these new aims, in order for it to perform a revolution- 
ary break at the unconscious level with the same mode as the precon- 
scious break. In fact, the two levels do not function in the same mode. 
The new socius invested by the libido as a full body can very well 
function as an autonomous territoriality, but one that is caught and 
wedged in the capitalist machine, and is localizable in the field of its 
market. For the great flow of mutant capital repels its limits, adds new 
axioms, and maintains desire within the mobile framework of its 
expanded limits. There can be a preconscious revolutionary break, with 
no real libidinal and unconscious revolutionary break. Or rather the order 
of things is as follows: there is first a real libidinal revolutionary break, 
which then shifts into the position of a simple revolutionary break with 
regard to aims and interests, and finally re-forms a merely specific re 
territoriality, a specific body on the full body of capital. Subjugated 
groups are continually deriving from revolutionary subject-groups. One 
more axiom. This is no more complicated than in the case of abstract 
painting. Everything begins with Marx, continues on with Lenin, and 
ends with the refrain, "Welcome, Mister Brezhnev." Is this still a case of 
revolutionaries speaking to another revolutionary, or rather a village 
clamoring for a new prefect? And if one were to ask when it all started to 
go bad, how far back must we go for an answer, back to Lenin, back to 
Marx? So true is it that the various investments, even when opposed, can 
coexist with one another in complexes that are not the province of 
Oedipus, but that do concern the sociohistorical field, its preconscious 
and unconscious conflicts and contradictions, about which it can only be 
said that they fall back on Oedipus, Marx-the-father, Lenin-the-father, 
Brezhnev-the-father. Fewer and fewer people believe in all this but it 
makes no difference, since capitalism is like the Christian religion, it 
lives precisely from a lack of belief, it does not need it—a motley 
painting of all that has been believed. 

But the reverse is also true: capitalism is constantly escaping on all 
sides. Its productions, its art, and its science form decoded and 
deterritorialized flows that do not merely submit to the corresponding 
axiomatic, but cause some of their currents to pass through the mesh of 
the axiomatic, underneath the recodings and the reterritorializations. 

Subject-groups in their turn derive from subjugated groups by way of 
ruptures in the latter. Capitalism is continually cutting off the circulation 
of flows, breaking them and deferring the break, but these same flows 
are continually overflowing, and intersecting one another according to 
schizzes that turn against capitalism and slash into it. Capitalism, which 
is always ready to expand its interior limits, remains threatened by an 
exterior limit that stands a greater chance of coming to it and cleaving it 
from within, in proportion as the interior limits expand. That is why the 
lines of escape are singularly creative and positive: they constitute an 
investment of the social field that is no less complete, no less total than 
the contrary investment. The paranoiac and the schizoid investments are 
like two opposite poles of unconscious libidinal investment, one of 
which subordinates desiring-production to the formation of sovereignty 
and to the gregarious aggregate that results from it, while the other 
brings about the inverse subordination, overthrows the established 
power, and subjects the gregarious aggregate to the molecular multiplici- 
ties of the productions of desire. And if it is true that delirium is 
coextensive with the social field, these two poles are found to coexist in 
every case of delirium, and fragments of schizoid revolutionary invest- 
ment are found to coincide with blocks of paranoiac reactionary 
investment. The oscillation between the two poles is a constituent aspect 
of the delirium. 

It appears, however, that the oscillation is not equal, and that as a 
tule the schizoid pole is potential in relation to the actual paranoiac pole 
(how can we count on art and science except as potentialities, since their 
actuality is easily controlled by the formations of sovereignty?). This 
results from the fact that the two poles of unconscious libidinal 
investment do not maintain the same relationship, nor the same form of 
relationship, with the preconscious investments of interest. On the one 
hand, in fact, the investment of interest fundamentally conceals the 
paranoiac investment of desire, and reinforces it as much as it conceals 
it: it covers over the irrational character of the paranoiac investment 
under an existing order of interests, of causes and means, of aims and 
reasons; or else the investment of interest itself gives rise to and creates 
those interests that rationalize the paranoiac investment; or yet again, an 
effectively revolutionary preconscious investment fully maintains a 
paranoiac investment at the level of the libido, to the extent that the new 
socius continues to subordinate the entire production of desire in the 
name of the higher interests of the revolution and the inevitable 
sequences of causality. In the other case, the preconscious interest must 
on the contrary discover the necessity for a different sort of investment, 

and must perform a kind of rupture with causality as well as a calling in 
question of aims and interests. 

In each case the problem is different: it is not enough to construct a 
new socius as full body; one must also pass to the other side of this 
social full body, where the molecular formations of desire that must 
master the new molar aggregate operate and are inscribed. Only by 
making this passage do we reach the revolutionary break and investment 
of the libido. This cannot be achieved except at the cost of, and by 
means of a rupture with, causality. Desire is an exile, desire is a desert 
that traverses the body without organs and makes us pass from one of its 
faces to the other. Never an individual exile, never a personal desert, but 
a collective exile and a collective desert. It is only too obvious that the 
destiny of the revolution is linked solely to the interest of the dominated 
and exploited masses. But it is the nature of this link that poses the real 
problem, as either a determined causal link or a different sort of 
connection. It is a question of knowing how a revolutionary potential is 
realized, in its very relationship with the exploited masses or the 
"weakest links" of a given system. Do these masses or these links act in 
their own place, within the order of causes and aims that promote a new 
socius, or are they on the contrary the place and the agent of a sudden 
and unexpected irruption, an irruption of desire that breaks with causes 
and aims and overturns the socius, revealing its other side? In the 
subjugated groups, desire is still defined by an order of causes and aims, 
and itself weaves a whole system of macroscopic relations that deter- 
mine the large aggregates under a formation of sovereignty. 
Subject-groups on the other hand have as their sole cause a rupture with 
causality, a revolutionary line of escape; and even though one can and 
must assign the objective factors, such as the weakest links, within 
causal series that made such a rupture possible, only what is of the order 
of desire and its irruption accounts for the reality this rupture assumes at 
a given moment, in a given place.*° 

It is clear how everything can coexist and intermix: in the "Leninist 
break," for example, when the Bolshevik group, or at least a part of this 
group, becomes aware of the immediate possibility of a proletarian 
revolution that would not follow the anticipated causal order of the 
relations of forces, but that would singularly precipitate things by 
plunging into a breach (the escape, or "revolutionary defeatism"). In 
reality, everything coexists: still hesitant preconscious investments in 
the case of some people who do not believe in this possibility; 
revolutionary preconscious investments in those who "see" the possibil- 
ity of a new socius but maintain it in an order of molar causality that 

already makes of the party a new form of sovereignty; and finally unconscious 
revolutionary investments that perform a real rupture with causality in the order 
of desire. And in the same people the most varied kinds of investments can 
coexist at such and such a moment, the two kinds of groups can interpenetrate. 
This is because the two groups are like determinism and freedom in Kant's 
philosophy: they indeed have the same "object"—and social production is never 
anything other than desiring-production, and vice versa—but they don't share the 
same law or the same regime. 

The actualization of a revolutionary potentiality is explained less by the 
preconscious state of causality in which it is nonetheless included, than by the 
efficacy of a libidinal break at a precise moment, a schiz whose sole cause is 
desire—which is to say the rupture with causality that forces a rewriting of 
history on a level with the real, and produces this strangely polyvocal moment 
when everything is possible. Of course the schiz has been prepared by a 
subterranean labor of causes, aims, and interests working together; of course this 
order of causes runs the risk of closing and cementing the breach in the name of 
the new socius and its interests. Of course one can always say after the fact that 
history has never ceased being governed by the same laws of aggregates and 
large numbers. The fact remains that the schiz came into existence only by means 
of a desire without aim or cause that charted it and sided with it. While the schiz 
is possible without the order of causes, it becomes real only by means of 
something of another order: Desire, the desert-desire, the revolutionary 
investment of desire. And that is indeed what undermines capitalism: where will 
the revolution come from, and in what form within the exploited masses? It is 
like death—where, when? It will be a decoded flow, a deterritorialized flow that 
runs too far and cuts too sharply, thereby escaping from the axiomatic of 
capitalism. Will it come in the person of a Castro, an Arab, a Black Panther, or a 
Chinaman on the horizon? A May '68, a home-grown Maoist planted like an 
anchorite on a factory smokestack? Always the addition of an axiom to seal off a 
breach that has been discovered; fascist colonels start reading Mao, we won't be 
fooled again; Castro has become impossible, even in relation to himself; vacuoles 
are isolated, ghettos created; unions are appealed to for help; the most sinister 
forms of "dissuasion" are invented; the repression of interest is reinforced—but 
where will the new irruption of desire come from?*! 

Those who have read us this far will perhaps find many reasons for 
reproaching us: for believing too much in the pure potentialities of art and even 
of science; for denying or minimizing the role of classes and class struggle; for 
militating in favor of an irrationalism of desire; for 

identifying the revolutionary with the schizo; for falling into familiar, 
all-too-familiar traps. This would be a bad reading, and we don't know which is 
better, a bad reading or no reading at all. And in all probability there are far more 
serious reproaches to be made, which we haven't even thought of. As for those we 
have named, we hold in the first place that art and science have a revolutionary 
potential, and nothing more, and that this potential appears all the more as one is 
less and less concerned with what art and science mean, from the standpoint of a 
signifier or signifieds that are necessarily reserved for specialists; but that art and 
science cause increasingly decoded and deterritorialized flows to circulate in the 
socius, flows that are perceptible to everyone, which force the social axiomatic to 
grow ever more complicated, to become more saturated, to the point where the 
scientist and the artist may be determined to rejoin an objective revolutionary 
situation in reaction against authoritarian designs of a State that is incompetent 
and above all castrating by nature. (For the State imposes a specifically artistic 
Oedipus, a specifically scientific Oedipus.) 

Secondly, we have not at all minimized the importance of precon-scious 
investments of class or interest, which are based in the infrastructure itself. But 
we attach all the more importance to them as they are the index in the 
infrastructure of a libidinal investment of another nature, and that can coincide as 
well as clash with them. Which is merely a way to pose the question, "How can 
the revolution be betrayed?"—once it has been said that betrayals don't wait their 
turn, but are there from the very start (the maintenance of paranoiac unconscious 
investments in revolutionary groups). And if we put forward desire as a 
revolutionary agency, it is because we believe that capitalist society can endure 
many manifestations of interest, but not one manifestation of desire, which would 
be enough to make its fundamental structures explode, even at the kindergarten 
level. We believe in desire as in the irrational of every form of rationality, and not 
because it is a lack, a thirst, or an aspiration, but because it is the production of 
desire: desire that produces—teal-desire, or the real in itself. Finally, we do not at 
all think that the revolutionary is schizophrenic or vice versa. On the contrary, we 
have consistently distinguished the schizophrenic as an entity from schizophrenia 
as a process; now the schizophrenic as entity can only be defined in relation to the 
arrests, the continuations in the void, or the finalist illusions that repression 
imposes on the process itself. This explains why we have only spoken of a 
schizoid pole in the libidinal investment of the social field, so as to avoid as much 
as possible the confusion of the schizophrenic process with the production of a 
schizophrenic. The schizophrenic process (the schizoid pole) is revolu- 
tionary, in the very sense that the paranoiac method is reactionary and fascist; 
and it is not these psychiatric categories, freed of all familialism, that will allow 
us to understand the politico-economic determinations, but exactly the opposite. 

And then, above all, we are not looking for a way out when we say that 
schizoanaiysis as such has strictly no political program to propose. If it did have 
one, it would be grotesque and disquieting at the same time. It does not take 
itself for a party or even a group, and does not claim to be speaking for the 
masses. Mo political program will be elaborated within the framework of 
schizoanaiysis. Finally, schizoanaiysis is something that does not claim to be 
speaking for anything or anyone, not even—in fact especially not—for 
psychoanalysis: nothing more than impressions, the impression that things aren't 
going well in psychoanalysis, and that they haven't been since the start. We are 
still too competent; we would like to speak in the name of an absolute incompe- 
tence. Someone asked us if we had ever seen a schizophrenic—no, no, we have 
never seen one. If someone reading this book feels that things are fine in 
psychoanalysis, we're not speaking for him, and for him we take back everything 
we have said. So what is the relationship between schizoanaiysis and politics on 
the one hand, and between schizoanaiysis and psychoanalysis on the other? 
Everything revolves around desiring-machines and the production of desire. 
Schizoanaiysis as such does not raise the problem of the nature of the socius to 
come out of the revolution; it does not claim to be identical with the revolution 
itself. Given a socius, schizoanaiysis only asks what place it reserves for 
desiring-production; what generative role desire enjoys therein; in what forms 
the conciliation between the regime of desiring-production and the regime of 
social production is brought about, since in any case it is the same production, 
but under two different regimes; if, on this socius as a full body, there is thus the 
possibility for going from one side to another, i.e., from the side where the molar 
aggregates of social production are organized, to this other side, no less 
collective, where the molecular multiplicities of desiring-production are formed; 
whether and to what extent such a socius can endure the reversal of power such 
that desiring-production subjugates social production and yet does not destroy it, 
since it is the same production working under the difference in regime; if there 
is, and how there comes to be, a formation of subject-groups; etc. 

If someone retorts that we are claiming the famous rights to laziness, to 
nonproductivity, to dream and fantasy production, once again we are quite 
pleased, since we haven't stopped saying the opposite, and _ that 
desiring-production produces the real, and that desire 
has little to do with fantasy and dream. As opposed to Reich, schizoanal-ysis 
makes no distinction in nature between political economy and libidinal economy. 
Schizoanalysis merely asks what are the machinic, social, and technical indices 
on a socius that open to desiring-machines, that enter into the parts, wheels, and 
motors of these machines, as much as they cause them to enter into their own 
parts, wheels, and motors. Everyone knows that a schizo is a machine; all schizos 
say this, and not just little Joey. The question to be asked is whether 
schizophrenics are the living machines of a dead labor, which are then contrasted 
to the dead machines of living labor as organized in capitalism. Or whether 
instead desiring, technical, and social machines join together in a process of 
schizophrenic production that thereafter has no more schizophrenics to produce. 
In her Lettre aux ministres, Maud Mannoni writes: "One of these adolescents, 
declared unfit for studies, does admirably well in a third-level class, provided he 
works some in mechanics. He has a passion for mechanics. The man in the garage 
has been his best therapist. If we take mechanics away from him he will become 
schizophrenic again."*” Her intention is not to praise ergotherapy or the virtues of 
social adaptation. She marks the point where the social machine, the technical 
machine, and the desiring-machine join closely together and bring their regimes 
into communication. She asks if our society can handle that, and what it is worth 
if it can't. And this is indeed the direction the social, technical, scientific, and 
artistic machines take when they are- revolutionary: they form desiring-machines 
for which they are already the index in their own regime, at the same time that the 
desiring-machines form them in the regime that is theirs, and as a position of 
desire. 

What, finally, is the opposition between schizoanalysis and psychoanalysis, 
when the negative and positive tasks of schizoanalysis are taken as a whole? We 
constantly contrasted two sorts of unconscious or two interpretations of the 
unconscious: the one schizoanalytic, the other psychoanalytic; the one 
schizophrenic, the other neurotic-Oedipal; the one abstract and nonfigurative, the 
other imaginary; but also the one really concrete, the other symbolic; the one 
machinic, the other structural; the one molecular, microphysical, and 
micrological, and the other molar or statistical; the one material, the other 
ideological; the one productive, the other expressive. We have seen how the 
negative task of schizoanalysis must be violent, brutal: defamiliarizing, 
de-oedipalizing, decastrating; undoing theater, dream, and fantasy; decoding, 
deterritorializing—a terrible curettage, a malevolent activity. But everything 
happens at the same time. For at the same time the process is liberated—the 
process of desiring-production, following its molecular 
