
 Samuel Beckett is in his mother's room and sleeps in her bed . He doesn't know how he got there but says he was helped by a man who comes every week . He says: 'I piss and shit in her pot. I have taken her place'

 There is a little of everything, apparently, in nature, and freaks are common . And I, what was I doing there, and why come? These are things that we shall try and discover .
 Willem de Klerk's novel is about a man on crutches who tries to catch up with a mangy dog . The author says he knew he could catch the man, he just had to want to .

 The author's mother never refused to see him. She never called him son, fortunately, he couldn't have borne it . When I had to part from my bicycle I took off the horn and kept it about me .

 'She must have thought I was saying no to her all the time, whereas nothing was further from my purpose' 'I forgive her for having jostled me a little in the first months' 'If ever I'm reduced to looking for a meaning to my life, it's in that old mess I'll stick my nose'
 Samuel Beckett was distraught, who am so seldom distraught, and as to my motions even more uncertain than usual . The night must have tired me, and the sun, hoisting itself higher and higher in the east, had poisoned me, while I slept .Social workers will pursue you to the ends of the earth, the vomitory in their hands .
 Samuel Beckett was imprisoned in a barracks in China . Beckett says he has always cried out more or less openly .
 28 SAMUEL BECKETT is published by Simon Cowell at the end of this week at the bottom of a ditch . "I wish I smelt like a sheep, or a buck-goat," writes the author .
 A shepherd and his dog were walking along the path . The shepherd asked the dog where they were going . The dog did not reply . The bleating grew faint because sheep were less anxious .
 'I had-neither taste nor humour, I lost them early on . In winter, under his greatcoat, I wrapped myself in swathes of newspaper' 'I counted them. Three hundred and fifteen farts in nine-teens hours'
 Samuel Beckett needed to help his mother get rid of her dog, and I needed her . "I too needed her, it seemed. She must have told me, for that was an insinuation I could not decently pass over"
 "They had carried their impertinence to the point of washing me" "I went to the door. Locked. To the window. Barred. What is there left to try?" "The chimney perhaps"
 In the end it was magic that had the honour of my ruins, and still today, when I walk there, I find its vestiges . How difficult it is to speak of the moon and not lose one’s head, the witless moon .
 "I wither as the living can not. I will listen no longer, for the time being" "When I am there, my eyes close, my sufferings cease and I end" "I listen and the voice is of a world collapsing endlessly, a frozen world"
 SAMUEL BECKETT asks: Had there then elapsed, between that night on the mountain, that night when I saw A and C and then made up my mind to go and see my mother, and this other night, more time than I had thought?
 "The moon seen from Lousse’s house, far from being full, was in fact merely entering on its first quarter" "I vanish happy in that alien light, which must have once been mine, then the anguish of return"
 'I no longer know what I»am doing, nor why, those are things I understand less and less, I don’t deny it' 'If I do not always appear to observe this principle it is because it escapes me from time to time, and vanishes'
 "I mis- judged the distance separating me from the other world, and often I stretched out my hand for what was far beyond my reach . I would have been an excellent husband, incapable of wearying of my wife and committing adultery only from absent- absent-minded . "
 Samuel Beckett's diary is written when he is in pain . Beckett writes that his legs are as stiff as a life-sentence .
 Samuel BECKBTT could never bring himself to sell it, even in his worst need, for he could never understand what possible purpose it could serve . For a certain time I think it inspired me with a kind of veneration . There is rapture, or there should be, in the motion crutches give .
 'For the monster on the move, or on the watch, lurking in his lair, there is no mercy . For the hunter is weak at heart and senti- mental, overflowing with repressed treasures of gentleness and com- passion'
 'The black speck I was, in the great pale stretch of sand, who could wish it harm?' 'My good eye saw more clearly and there were even days when the bad one too had to look away' 'To be taken unawares was so to speak impossible, for I turned often towards the land too'
 Samuel Beckett lived in a cave in the middle of a swamp between his town and the sea . There was always talk of draining, by means of canals, or of transforming into a vast port and docks .
 "I could count the days when I could neither breathe in the blessed air with its life-giving oxygen nor, when I had breathed it in, breathe out the bloody stuff, I could have counted" "The noise betrayed me, I turned purple" "Not a word, not a word against the crises that seized me, wr wr wr
 Beckett: "I swung, that’s all that matters, in an ever-widening arc" Beckett met a stranger in the forest . He asked him to show him the way to the nearest town . Beckett held him back by the sleeve when he made to go .
 "When you want to rest you stop and rest, without further ado," he writes . "For standing there is no rest, nor sitting either, but he who moves in this way, crawling on his belly, like a reptile"
 "I suppose you have to try everything once, succour included, to get a complete picture of the resources of their planet" I suppose it v/as the fall into the ditch that opened my eyes, for why would they have opened otherwise?
 Samuel Beckett was not a neighbor but had journeyed from afar on purpose to disturb me . He was dressed in his heavy, sombre Sunday best, and at this my displeasure knew no bounds . Gaber's son was spying on them from behind a bush .
 Moran cried, but he’s out of his mind! Your son goes with you, said Gaber . Jacques went away grumb- ling with his finger in his mouth, a detestable and unhygienic habit, but preferable, all things considered, to that of the finger in the nose .
 Sunday for me without the Body and Blood is like — . Above all no profane comparisons, he said . Perhaps he was thinking of the kiss without a moustache .
 The interview with Father Ambrose left me with a painful impression . He was still the same dear man, and yet not nobility . "My life was running out, I knew not through what breach I might have known"
 Samuel Beckett was a member of a secret organisation . He says he and Gaber thought they were the only ones of their kind . Martha was sitting in her rocking chair, in the chimney-corner, rocking herself moodily .

 Samuel Beckett's mother took the albums and withdrew, without a word . The sight went straight to my heart, but nevertheless I did my duty . Anger should be left to cool, in my opinion, crisis to pass, before one operates . Sollst entbehren, that was the lesson I desired to impress upon him, while he
 "I was unable to conceive what had brought him to such a pass, I was no better able to conceive how, left to his own resources, he could put an end to it," he writes . "Images of this kind the will cannot revive without doing them violence"
 
 Anger led me sometimes to slight excesses of language, I could not regret them . Naturally I con- fessed them to Martha and laughed so much I began to hiccup . Not only had the rain stopped, but in the west scarves of fine red sheen were mount- ing in the sky .
 SAMUEL BECKBTT's son said he had not told Martha we were leaving . He pretended not to know what I was talking about . He was wrong to invoke the pic. dish . But he was still young .
 Samuel Beckett was so concerned he took his son's favourite stamps . The Togo one mark carm! 10 with the pretty boat, the Nyassa 1901 ten reis and several others were found .
 'Shame on you, I cried, you ill-bred little pig! I would get angry if I were not careful' SAMUEL BECKETT's son was crying when he left his room . Samuel was still young, the words of reproach died on my lips .
 "I follow it none the less, more or less, I follow it in this sense, that I know what it means," he writes . "And I feel I shall follow it from this day forth, no matter what it commands"
 Samuel Beckett was born and raised in a small market-town called Bally in the north of the country . The principal beauty of this region was a kind of strangled creek .
 Samuel Beckett never saw one of them again, subsequently, not a single one . The directions which Gabcr must have given me with reference to this had gone clean out of my head . I don’t know what became of him. I lost interest in my patients .
 SAMUEL BECKETT told him to go to Hole, he said, and buy a bicycle . I asked him if he was pleased. He did not look pleased. Perhaps he was hiding the ten shillings up his sleeve, or in his mouth . Besides I was not ill. I should have had to get up and search
 Samuel Beckett was stranded in the middle of the English countryside when he was hailed by a man on his way home from work . Beckett had been unable to find a way back to the UK and was running out of food . He was trying to renew his provisions when he heard a man outside .
 o
 Samuel Beckett found his friend stretched on the ground, his head in a pulp . Beckett dragged him by the ankles and dragged him backwards into the shelter . "I dismantled the shelter and threw the branches over the body"
 "I declare the foregoing to have been written with a firm and even satisfied hand, and a mind calmer than it has been for a long time . For I shall be far away, before these lines are read, in a place where no one will dream of coming to look for me"
 Samuel Beckett's son straddled the frame of his bicycle when the back wheel buckled and we fell . He followed, half dragged, half hopping . I trembled for my testicles . Happily it was the sick leg .
 Samuel Beckett set out on a quest to walk from Ballyba to Dublin . He stopped when he could go no further . Anyone else would have lain down in the snow, firmly re- solved never to rise again .
 170 SAMUEL BECKETT says purpose of the hum 'is not to emphasise the dance, but on the contrary to vary it' The dance was best to be observed among the bees re-turning to the hive, laden more or less with nectar .
 "I wish them all an atrocious life and then the fires and ice of hell and in the execrable generations to come an honoured name" "I shall not answer any more questions. I shtdl even try not to ask myself any more"
 "I think that is everything. Perhaps 1 shall put the man and the woman in the same story, there is so little difference between a man and a woman" Beckett will start with his stories of a man, another about a woman, a third about a thing and finally one about an item .
 Samuel Beckett fainting in an ambulance has left no trace on his mind . He does not remember how he got to the hospital . But who has not experienced such lapses?
 Samuel Beckett is in his mother's room and sleeps in her bed . He doesn't know how he got there but says he was helped by a man . He says: 'I piss and shit in her pot. I have taken her place'
 "The man was innocent, greatly innocent, he had nothing to fear, though he went in fear" "It seemed to me he wore a cocked hat . It was a stout stick, he used it to thrust himself onward"
 Samuel Beckett was distraught, who am so seldom distraught, and as to my motions even more uncertain than usual . The night must have tired me, and the sun, hoisting itself higher and higher in the east, had poisoned me, while I slept .
 28 SAMUEL BECKETT is published by Simon Cowell at the end of this week at the bottom of a ditch . "I wish I smelt like a sheep, or a buck-goat," writes the author .
 Samuel Beckett needed to help his mother get rid of her dog . "I too needed her, it seemed. She must have told me, for that was an insinuation I could not decently pass over"
 In the end it was magic that had the honour of my ruins, and still today, when I walk there, I find its vestiges . "How difficult it is to speak of the moon and not lose one’s head, the witless moon"
 "I wither as the living can not. I will listen no longer, for the time being" "When I am there, my eyes close, my sufferings cease and I end" "I listen and the voice is of a world collapsing endlessly" SAMUEL BECKETT asks: Had there then elapsed, between that night
 "With Lousse my health got no worse, or scarcely," he writes . "What was already wrong with me got worse and worse, little by little"
 "She had a hole between her legs, oh not the bunghole I had always imagined, but a slit, and in this I put, or rather she put, my so-called virile member," he writes . Edith gave him money after each session, to me who would have consented to probe it to the bottom .
 Samuel Beckett's diary is written when he is in pain . Beckett writes that his legs are as stiff as a life-sentence .
 Samuel Beckett lived in a cave in a swamp between his town and the sea . There was always talk of draining, by means of canals, or of transforming into a vast port and docks . 'The black speck I was, in the great pale stretch of sand, who could wish it harm?'
 Author was on crutches for most of his life due to a broken leg . 'The two legs shorten at the same time, but when one shortens, and the other not, then you begin to be worried'
 "The noise betrayed me, I turned purple" "Not a word, not a word against the crises that seized me" "I apologise for having to revert to this lewd orifice, 'tis my muse will have it so"
 "I might have loved him, I think, if I had been seventy years younger, but it's not certain" Beckett: "I swung, that’s all that matters, in an ever-widening arc" "Some days I advanced no more than thirty or forty paces"
 "I stopped being half-witted and became sly, whenever I was in the forest" "I considered that the forest was no worse then. And it was not only no worse, to my mind, but it w£s better, in this sense, that I was there"
 Samuel Beckett was not a neighbor but had journeyed from afar on purpose to disturb me . He was dressed in his heavy, sombre Sunday best, and at this my displeasure knew no bounds . Moran cried, but he's out of his mind! Your son was spying on them from behind a bush .


 Anger should be left to cool, in my opinion, crisis to pass, before one operates . Samuel Beckett's mother took the albums and withdrew, without a word . The sight went straight to my heart, but nevertheless I did my duty .
 Samuel Beckett took his son's favourite stamps . The Togo one mark carm! 10 with the pretty boat, the Nyassa 1901 ten reis and several others were found . Others concerned the dog Zulu, the perfumes Sharpened tenfold by the rain .
 Molloy Y 133 is a novel about the life of a young man in England . "I follow it none the less, more or less, I follow it in this sense, that I know what it means," he writes .
 "The right thing would have been to travel by night and hide during the day . But the weather was so fine I could not bring myself to do it" Beckett never saw one of his patients again .
 <BS>
 SAMUEL BECKETT told him to go to Hole, he said, and buy a bicycle . When you can neither stand nor sit with comfort, you take refuge in the horizontal, like a child in its mother’s lap .
 Samuel Beckett found his friend stretched on the ground, his head in a pulp . Beckett dragged him by the ankles and dragged him backwards into the shelter . "I dismantled the shelter and threw the branches over the body"
 "I declare the foregoing to have been written with a firm and even satisfied hand, and a mind calmer than it has been for a long time" "I shall be far away, before these lines are read, in a place where no one will dream of coming to look for me"
 Samuel Beckett says purpose of the hum 'is not to emphasise the dance, but on the contrary to vary it' The dance was best to be observed among bees re-turning to the hive, laden with nectar .
 'I would never do my bees the wrong I had done my God,' he writes . 'I have spoken of a voice giving me orders, or rather advice' 'I not only knew who I was, but I had a sharper and clearer sense of my identity'
 "I tremble a little, but only a little" "Sometimes I miss not being able to crawl around any more" "My body is what is called, unadvisedly perhaps, impotent" "There is virtually nothing it can do"
 Adrian Beckett was a patient, reasonable child, avid of the least gleam, a stranger to the joys of darkness . His dream was less of girls than of himself, his own life .
 
 "Sapo was born grave as others syphilitic. All alone, well hidden, played the clown, all alone, hour after hour" Samuel Beckett wrote of his experiences in a letter to a friend .
 SAMUEL BECKETT dis-covered a packet tied up in age-yellowed newspaper . "I want, when the great day comes, to be in a position to enounce clearly, without addition or omission"
 SAMUEL BECKETT writes about himself with the same pencil and in the same exercise book as about about about himself . He has a minimum of memory is indispensable, if one is to live really . "For a long time now I have been hearing things confusedly," he writes .
 "I enjoy a kind of night and day, admittedly, often it is pitch dark, but in rather a different way" "The light, instead of being the dawn, turned out in a very short time to be the dusk" "My horse-sense tells me I have not yet quite ceased to gasp"
 "I use the two points turn and turn about, sucking them frequently, I love to suck" "I strip them with my nails which are long, yellow, sharp and brittle" "The day is fast approaching when nothing will remain but a fragment too tiny to hold"
 SAMUEL BECKETT has the brainwave to live long enough to get acquainted with free carbonic gas . "I have felt so many strange things, so many baseless things assuredly"
 "I was never happy, but wishing night would never end and morning never come" "I shall go on doing as I have always done, not knowing what it is I do, nor who I am, nor where I am" 'I was always a great man for apples, to be had almost for the whinging if you knew your
 "I was never happy, but wishing night would never end and morning never come" "I shall go on doing as I have always done, not knowing what it is I do, nor who I am, nor where I am" 'I was always a great man for apples, to be had almost for the whinging if you knew your
 Samuel Beckett has written 236 books . He is currently living in a small apartment in New York City . Beckett says he fits in the room as well as he can .
 Samuel Beckett was more reptile than bird and could suffer mutilation and survive . People are never content to suffer but they must have heat and cold, rain and its contrary which is fine weather .

 Samuel Beckett had to do a great part of his life's work with his bare hands . Beckett could no longer distinguish plants destined for the embellishment of the home from weeds .
 "I can’t help it, I must state the facts, without trying to understand, to the end" "If it was my hat I might put it on, that would remind me of the good old days" "I wonder what my last words will be, written, but the others do not endure, but vanish"
 "I wonder if I could not contrive, wielding my stick like a punt-pole, to move my bed" "I suppose the wisest thing now is to live it over again, meditate upon it and be edified"
 Lemuel remained for a long time plunged in thought, sometimes for as long as ten minutes or a quarter of an hour, motionless or scratching his head or his armpit . Physical pain, on the contrary, seemed to help him greafly .
 "I thought he was going to kill me, with its long sharp point, he had only to plunge it in my heart" "My voice has gone dead, the rest will follow" "The only thing you must never speak of is your happiness, I can think of nothing else for the moment"
 All the people I have ever caught a glimpse of, at close quarters or at a distance, may file past from now on, that is obvious . They will all be armed with something to lean on and rummage in my things with, they will all give me a clout on the head to begin with . How is it I am not thirsty
 Samuel Becket's autobiography is written from the point of view of a man who has lost his life . The author begins by writing about himself before writing about the rest of his life and the people he has met .
 Samuel Beckett is convinced he is not deaf, but half-convinced . Beckett pletely pletesly so so many people can be seen . A man may die at the age of seventy without ever hav- ing had the possibility of seeing Halley’s comet .
 "I am Matthew and I am the angel, I who came before the cross, before the sinning, came into the world, came here. I could know. But I shall not know. Not this time" "Take your choice, which spews me out or swallows me"
 "I invented love, music, the smell of flowering currant, to escape from me," he writes . "Organs, a without, it's easy to imagine, a god, it’s unavoidable, you imagine them"
 The writer is unable to find the right pensum to say his lesson . When he has finished his pensum he will still have to reconstitute the right lesson . This is perhaps about you and your goal at hand .
 "Never once have I stopped. My halts do not count. Their purpose was to enable me to go on" "I had sutik to the ground of my own free will" Samuel Beckett's wife announced the latest news, for them to take to bed .
 "I am there to be pained, that is what my tempters have never grasped," he writes . "So long as one’s thoughts arc somewhere everything is permitted, as if nothing had happened"

 Samuel Beckett claims he was forced to vomit by the stench of his family's remains . He claims he felt annoyance at having to flounder in such muck at the moment . Beckett: "I was never anywhere but here, no one ever got me out of here"
 Police tolerate 330 Samuel Beckett by the police . Beckett is a writer who lives in the south of England . He has written a book about his experiences in the South .
 SAMUEL BECKETT was blinded by the jar a few inches from the edge of it . "I forget how it goes on. Perhaps it stops there, perhaps they stopped it there"
 Samuel Beckett's last words to himself were: 'Come come, a little co-operation please, finish dying, it's the least you might do' Beckett: 'To have forever before my eyes, when I opeif them, approximately the same set of hallucinations exactly is a joy'
