molloy I am in my mother’s room.it’s I who live there now. I don’t know how I got tlpre. Perhaps in an ambulance, certainly a vehicle of some kind. I was helped. I’d never have got there alone. There’s this man who comes every week. Perhaps I got here thanks to him. He gives me money and takes away the pages. So many pages, so much money. Yes, I work now, a little like I used to, except that

chambermaid is a queer . it was he told me that I should have begun all wrong , that they should have started differently . he came every Sunday apparently . the other days he isn't free. He is always thirsty . here , it was the beginning , do you understand? Whereas now it’s nearly the end. Here it is . this time, then once more I think, then pprhaps a last time , then I think it’ll be over, with that world too .

otjicr days are remarkably bare , but they pass too , hard to distinguish from themselves . it is remarkably clear that they pass remarkably slowly towards each other , unconscious of what they were doing . they chew, swallow, then after a short pause effortlessly bring up the next mouthful . a neck muscle stirs and the jaws begin to grind again . the town was not far. It was two men , unmistakably , one small and one tall , who had left the town , first one, then the other and then

the trough is a tavern , a deserted road , which is characterized by a vast expanse of land . it is the first time that we have seen each other , and it has been described as one of the most difficult times in the world . here , we describe a moment when together they went down into the same afar and finally met . they did not pass each other by, but halted, face to face, as in the country , of an evening, on a dry road .

we report a case of a man solitary after so many years , so many days and nights unthinkingly given to that rumour rising at birth and even earlier . he looks old and it is a sorry sight to see him afar . the stout stick was a stick , he used it to thrust himself onward , or as a defence , when the time came, against dogs and marauders . but the man was innocent , greatly innocent and he had nothing to do .

to fear, though he went in fear, although he had nothing to fear , there was nothing they could do to him , or very little . but he can’t have known it myself , if I thought about it . yes, he saw himself threatened, his body threatened , his reason threatened, and perhaps he was , perhaps they were, in spite of his innocence . it seemed to me he wore a cocked hat . I watched him recede, overtaken (myself) by an anxiety which was not necessarily his,

in spite of my soul’s leap out to him, my soul was straining, wildly . he was bare-headed and wore sand- 12 SAMUEL BECKETT shoes , smoked a cigar . his hand was tremble and of which my eyes saw the wrist only , the heavily veined back , pallid rows of knuckles , and he had just left the town . however , that is not , I mean my hand, what I wish to speak of now, everything in due course , but

constipation is a sign of good health in pomeranians . a little dog followed him wretchedly, after the fashion of pomerians , stopping, turning in slow circles, giving up and then a bit further on, beginning all over again . the gentleman turned back , took the little creature in his arms and drew the cigar from his lips and buried his face in the orange fleece , for it was a gentleman , that was obvious .

he disappeared in spite of appearances , his head on his chest , the smoking object in his hand . he was dwindling , swindling and he had disappeared . the dog was a little frightened of me , but he is not a pretty sight . it was in thij sense , and yet no, for I did want to . to watch them out of sight , no, I can do it .

it took me a long time to know that, and I am not sure of it . there I am then informed as to certain things, knowing certain things about him, things I had craved to know, things that I had never thought of . to think I try my best not to talk about myself . here , a moment I shall talk about the cows , about the sky, if I can . he leaves me, he’s in a hurry . after three minutes of me he was loitering .

the hat is fastened, it has always been fastened to my buttonhole, always the same buttonhole , at all seasons , by a long lace . the hand that held the buttonhole I thrust as far as possible from me and moved in an arc , to and fro . as I did so, I watched the lapel of my greatcoat and saw it open and close . it was my hat that I beflowered .

the eminence of the mud and the scum is common , and it is a little of everything , apparently in nature, and freaks are common . the arc things we must not take seriously are things that we must try and discover . here we present a few dif- ferent occasions , deep down, and deep down is my dwelling , oh not deepest down , somewhere between the cows , the sky, the sea, the mountains .

in my life without end I have dabbled with every kind of sleep, but at the time now coming back to me I toolc my doze in the daytime and, what is more, in the morning . let me hear nothing of the moon, in my night there is no moon , and if it happens that I speak of the stars it is by mistake . how agreeable it is to be confirmed , after a more or less long period of vacillation in one’s first impres- sions , perhaps that is what tempers the pangs of death 

the craving for a fellow has always been in need . it is a matter of time , but it is not a human voice . this is how I went about it . a few years ago , my mother was a child s play for me , the play of an only child , to fill my mind until it was rid of all other preoccupation and I seized with a trembling at the mere idea of being hindered from going there , I mean to my mother , there and then . so I got up and adjusted my crutches

a chainless bicycle with a free-wheel if such a bicycle exists . to describe it at length would be a pleasure . it had a little red horn instead of the bell fashionable in your days . if I were obliged to record , in a roll of honour, those activities which in the course of my inter- minable existence have given me only a mild pain in the balls, the blowing of a rubber horn — toot! — would figure among the first.

the corncrakes are heard in the corn, in the meadows, all the short summer night long, dinning their rattles on our midnights . this is the second last but one of a form fading among fading forms , and which I here declare without further ado to have begun in the second or third week of June , at the moment that is to say most painful of all when over what is called our hemisphere the sun is at its pitilessmost and the arctic radiance comes pissing on the midnights of our midnight

the question of whether to call her Ma, Mag or the Countess Caca, she having for countless years been as deaf as a post , is a deep and doubtless unacknowledgeledged need , the need to have a Ma , that is the mother , and to proclaim it audibly . the question did 18 SAMUEL BBCKETT not arise , at the period I’m worming into now, I mean the question that she was quite incontinent, both of faeces and water , but a kind

a clat- tering gabble can only have stopped during her brief instants of unconsciousness . a knock meant yes, two no, three I don’t know, four money, five goodbye . I was hard put to ram this code into her ruined and frantic under- standing , but I did it , in the end . that she should associate the four knocks with anything but money was something to be avoided at all ( costs . for she seemed to have lost , if not absolutely all notion of mensuration , at least the faculty of

con- siderations I looked for and finally found a more effective means of putting the idea of money into her head . this consisted in replac-ing the four knocks of my index knuckle by one or more (according to my needs) thumps of the fist , on her skull . that she understood . MOLLOY 19 In any case I didn’t come for money . she took her money, but she did not come for that . if she never succeeded in getting me unstuck, it was that fate had ear

a woman who came each week smelt a terrible smell . it must have come from the bowels. Odour of antiquity . she stopped for a second , then began again . a little grey wizened pear. Pah. Did that please her? 1 don’t know . her babble stopped for another second . perhaps she said to herself .

the reason for this regula- tion is that the ways into and, of course, out of this town are narrow and darkened by enormous vaults, without excep-tion . it is a good rule and I observe it religiously , in spite of the difficulty I have in advancing on my crutches pushing my bicycle at the same time . so we cleared these difficult straits, my bicycle and I together . a little further on I heard myself hailed . I raised my head and saw a police- man. Elliptically speaking, for it was only

in a panic , we took this paper from my pocket and thrust it under his nose . we took the little side streets , quiet, sunlit, I springing along between my crutches , he pushing my bicydle , with the tips of his white-gloved fingers . the weather was fine . he was not — I didn’t feel unhappy . I stopped a moment , I made so bold, to lift my hand and touch the crown of my hat .

the better to listen to the music . it might have drawn a crowd , but none the less my skin had felt it , it had felt a man’s hard fist through its coverings . while still putting my best foot foremost I gave myself up to that golden moment, as if I had been someone else . the wisest perhaps, lying in the squares or sitting on their doorsteps, were savouring its languid ending, forgetful of recent cares , indifferent to those at hand .

the sergeant, content to threaten me with a cylindrical ruler, was little by little rewarded for his pains by the discovery that my surname escaped me for the moment and that I was on my way to my mother whose charity kept me dying . as to her address, I was in the dark , but knew how to get there , even in the darkness . he had heard , stilling her chatter , the bellowing of the cattle , that violent raucous tremulous bellowing not of cattle . the spits still pain me 

the shambles are the pastures, but of the towns and their cattle-markets , near which she lived . if it was a cattle market near which her mother lived , it could equally well have been the cattle- market . the sergeant is the same district , and it is a district in which she lives . it has been a long history of a life - threatening disease , but it has not yet been known why .

a woman rose up before me, a big fat woman dressed in black , or rather in mauve . she was holding out to me on an odd saucer a mug full of a greyish concoction which must have been green tea with saccharine and powdered milk . the social worker repaid the compliment , since they were paying no attention to me .

we report a case of a swoon- ing , a small pile of tottering disparates , in which the hard, the liquid and the soft were joined , without understanding how the transfer had been effected . social workers offer you free, gratis and for nothing , something to hinder you from swiping , which with them is an obsessioiv it is useless to recoil , they will pursue you to the ends of the earth , the vomitory in their hands . f did not let it

if it is unlawful to be without papers, why did they not insist on my getting them? It is not an easy matter to apply the letter of the law to a creature like me . it can be done, but reason is against it. It is better to leave things to the police.it is not a matter of the matter . a deplorable sight , a comprehensible example , for the people who so need to be encouraged , in their bitter toil , and to have before their eyes manifestations of strength only, of courage and joy , without which

in the tranquillity of decomposition that I remember the long confused emotion which was my life, and that I judge it , as it is said that God will judge me , and with no less impertinence . it is only since 1 have ceased to live that I think of these things and the other things . to decompose is to live too , I know, and don’t torment me, but one sometimes forgets . and of that life too I shall tell you perhaps one day, the day I know that when I thought I knew I was merely existing

the rotting flesh of the barracks has been devoured by a multitude of people . it is a very difficult time to think riding , for me . this is the first case of a man who was beaten by the storm . he had a pity on me , but he did not understand it .

when I try and think riding I lose my balance and fall , it is so easy to speak in the present tense , when speaking of the past . it is the mythological present , don’t mind it . I was already settling in my raglimp stasis when I remembered it wasn’t done . i went on my way, that way of which I knew nothing, qua way, which was noth-ing more than a surface, bright or dark, smooth or rough, and always dear to me, in spite of all, and the dear sound of

the wfiole thing is to know what saint to implore, any fool can implorize him . it came back to my mind, from nowhere, as moment before my name, that I had set out to see my mother , at the begin- ning of this ending day . if you are interested in particulars, there is no need to despair , you may scrabble on the right door, in the right way, in a end . there seems to be no whole , before you’re dead , that should be easy.

if, too changed to know it is they, make no mistake, it will be they, though changed . for to contrive a being, a place, I nearly said an hour, but I would not hurt any- one’s feelings , and then to use them no more , that would be, how shall I say , I don’t know . if it had been I would have known that night , on the canal-bank, I find nothing, no night properly speaking, nothing but Molloy in the ditch, and behind closed lids the little night and

a sheep entangled in the brambles and was waiting for an order from his master to drag me out . he stopped watching me to gnaw at his flesh , furiously , where the ticks were in him . it is then too that the meaning of words is least obscure to me , so that I said, with tranquil assur- ance, Where arc you taking*thcm, to the fields or to the shambles?

if he was going to- wards the town, what prevented him from skirting it or from leav- ing it again by another gate on his way to new pastures that meant nothing either , for slaughter- houses are not confined to towns , no, they are everywhere , the country is full of them , every butcher has his slaughter-house and the right to slaughter , according to his lights . if it was he didn’t understand, or did not want to reply , witfiout a word for me I mean, for 

a bad beginning, because it left me with persisting doubts as to the destination of those sheep, among which there were lambs, and often wondering if they had safely reached some commonage or fallen, their skulls shattered, their thin legs crumpling, first to their knees, then over on their fleecy sides, under the pole-axe , though that is not the way they slaughter sheep . but there is much to be said too for these little doubts . good God, what a land of breeders, you see quadrupeds everywhere ,

we report a case of a drenched earth adolescence , which was found to be a rare occurrence in the world . it was found that the earth was awoken by the sun , and the earth had a wake , for good , in April . despite the gloom , it was hid by the earth . in winter , under my greatcoat , I wrapped myself in swathes of newspaper . even farts made no impression on it , gas escapes from my fundament

the right MOLLOY 31 road was right for me, a wrong road was an event for me . but when I was on my way to my mother only one road was wrong , the one that led to her or one of those that led her , for all did not lead to her . when my mother was on her way to her mother a road was not right . if she was on one of these right roads and that disturbed me , like all recall to life , I did not know if I was in the right town , where I first saw the murk of day

the icy words hail down upon me, and the world dies too , foully named . all the words know and the dead things , and that makes a handsome little sum , with a beginning , a middle and an end*as in the well-built phrase 32 SAMUEL BECKETT and the long sonata of the dead . the word is inventing . it is a pensum , which is the first of its kind . here , we report a case of a woman who had been living so far from words so

the name of my town is a small town in which a dog , duly leashed , was not out on the road , but in on on the other side . for the word once let fall I would know if it was the right word, the one I was seeking , in my memory or another, and so where I stood . this resolution was never to be carried out , an absurd mishap prevented it . yes, my resolutions were remarkable in this, that they were no sooner formed than something always happened to prevent their execution . to tell the truth ( to tell

we report a case of a poor old man , who was killed by a bloodthirsty mob of both sexes and all ages . the lady was in her stride , but the lady had not been able to afford the pension of my dear departed . he had never derived the smallest benefit but only insults and vexations .

the police constable rose up before me . he brought down heavily on my handle-bars his big red hairy paw , I noticed it myself , and had it appear with the lady the following conversation . finally in his turn the constable too dispersed , the word is not too strong , grumbling and growling , followed by the last idlers who had given up all hope of my coming to a bad end . the lady , a Mrs. Loy , might as well say it now and be done with it , or Lousse ,

in possession of certain ideas or points of view which could only have come to me from her, namely that having killed her dog I was morally obliged to help her carry it home and bury it , that she did not wish to prose- cute me for what I had done , but that it was not always possible to do as one does not wish . she had told me, for that was an insinuation I could not decently pass over in silence as I had the rest , and I made no bones about telling her I needed neither her nor anyone else, which was perhaps a

this is a boulevard of all these righteous ones , guardians of the peace , all these feet and hands , stamp- ing, clutching , clenched in vain , these bawling mouths that never bawl out of season , this sky beginning to drip , enough of being abroad , trapped , visible . for to say I needed no one was not to say too much , but an infinitesimal part of what I should have said could not have said, should never have said tar the want of need in which I was

the house where Sophie — no, I can’t call her that any more . she had my bellyful by the time I got there . it was because I knew I was there that I had my stomachful , a mile more to %o and I would only have my stomach an hour later . if they had removed a few tgsticles , they would have been happier, livelier , amputated at the groin .

if they accused me of having made a balls of it, of me, of them, they thanked me for it too , from the depths of their rotten bag , the right lower than the left , or inversely, I forget, decaying circus clowns . the best thing for me would have been for them to go, and I would have seen to it myself , with a knife or secateurs , but for my terror of physical pain and festered wounds , so that I shook . for the terror of a joke which still goes on

we buried the dog as he was, no box or wrapping of any kind, like a Carthusian monk, but with his collar and lead . it was she put him in the hole , though she was the gentleman . she dug the hole, put in the dog , filled up the hole.it was her own burial , and it was a larch tree . the sea-green needles are like silk and speckled .

the dog had ticks in his ears, I have an eye for such things, they were buried with him . when she had finished her grave she handed me the spade and hpgan to muse , or brood . she laughed . it was perhaps her way of crying. Or perhaps she was mistaken and she was really crying , with the noise of laughter . Tears and laughter are so much Gaelic to me .

it was clear he was doing his best. Unless he had hit on it alone , it wouldn’t surprise me . Pets often change masters. He didn’t say much else. No, I’m wrong , he also said, Putain de merde ! Unless it was too late . he listened , his head on one side pondered , then said . Fuck the son of a bitch. It was clear that he would have buried. if she had stayed , she would have

an easy chair may seem strange that I was able to go through the motions I have described without their help . I find it strange. You don’t remember immediately who you are, when you wake . on a chair I found a white chamber pot with a roll of toilet-paper in it . it is a relief from what I feel coming . the room was chock-full of pouffes and easy chairs thronged all about me, in the gloom .

the moon is a huge moon framed in the window . the moon was moving from left to right , or the room is moving from right to left, or both together perhaps , perhaps, or either both together or both . but can one speak of right and left in such circum- stances? It seems certain , and yet what a simple thing it seemed , that *vast yellow light sailing slowly behind my bars and which little by little the dense wall devoured, and finally eclipsed . now its tranquil course was written on the walls, a radiance scored with shadow

it must be her arse she shows us always . the next pain in the balls was anthropology and the other disciplines, such as psychiatry, that are connected with it, discon- nected, then connected again, according to the latest discoveries . what I liked in anthropologie was its inexhaustible faculty of negation, its relentless definition of man, as though he were no better ! han God, in terms of what he is not . but my ideas on this subject were always horribly confused , for my knowledge of men was scant

a world at an end, in spite of appearances, its end brought it forth, ending it began , is it clear enough? And it says that here nothing stirs, has never stirred , will never stir , except myself , who do not stir either, when I am there, but see and am seen . but it is not a sound like the other sounds , that you listen to , when you choose, and can sometimes silence , by going away or stopping your ears , no , but it can never come . if I went on listening to that far whisper

a sound which begins to rustle in your head without your«knowing how, or why . it makes no difference therefore whether I listen to it or not I shall hear it always, no thunder can deliver me, until it stops . but nothing compels me to speak of it , when it doesn’t suit me , at the moment . if I get done with it less successfully than if i had all my wits about me, it does not suit me, at least I think so . that moon then, all things considered, filled me suddenly with amaze, with surprise

a new moon is often in good faith* excellent faith . if there then elapsed between that night on the mountain and between that evening when 42 SAMUEL BECKETT I saw A and C and then made up my mind to go and see my mother , and this other night, more time than I had thought , namely fourteen full days , or nearly ? and what possible chance was there of finding a place for them, no matter what their burden , in the so rigorous chain of events I had just undergone?

despite the pranks of nature , it was at all events with the aid of these considerations that I grew calm again and was restored to my old ataraxy , for what it was worth . it came back also to my mind that my nights were moonless and the moon foreign, to my nights , so that I had never seen, drifting past the window , carrying 1 me back to other nights, other moons , this moon I had just seen , I had forgotten who I was (excusably) and spoken of myself as I would have of another 

the next day I demanded my clothes.the valet went to find out.he came back with the news they had been burnt. I continued my inspection of the room. It was at first sight a perfect cube. Through the lofty window I saw boughs. They rocked gently, but not all the time, shaken now and then by sudden spasms. I noticed the chandelier wa& burning. My clothes, I said, my crutches, forgetting my cruties were there, against the chair.he left me MOLLOY 43 alone again, leaving the door open

the reason for this was perhaps this, that all morning the talk had been of clothes that people wear and I am happy to give you the benefit of it . it is not often that I take cognisance so clearly of the clothes people wear . the reason behind that is perhaps this , that the talk was of a woman wearing a chamois .

in the present state of our knowledge, it is difficult to go to one’s mother with things in such a state , more difficult than to the Lousses of this world , or to its police-stations . but the valet having brought my clothes , in a paper which he unwrapped in front of me, I saw that my hat was not among them , so that I said . he said a hat .

a com- pletely unsuckable stone was found in the valet , and it was discovered that it had been taken from me at the police-station , without my knowing it , or scattered and lost , when I fell or at some other time, or thrown away , for I would sometimes throw away all I had had . this was a decision too which I took almost instantaneously . here , we report a case of an old lace , no lace lasts for ever .

if I deal at such length with this knife it is because I have it somewhere still I think, among my possessions , and because having dealt with it here at so length I shall not have to deal with it again , when that moment comes, if it ever comes , to draw up the list of my pos- sessions . for it is natural I should dilate at lesser lengtii on what I lost than on what i could not lose , that goes without saying . because it escapes me from time to time and vanishes as utterly as if

for anything worse than what I do, without knowing what, or yhy, I have never been able to conceive , and that doesn’t surprise me , for I never tried . for any worse than that I had I would have known no peace until I got it , if I know any- thing about myself . and what I have, what I am, is enough , was always enough for me . as far as my dear little sweet little future is concerned I have no qualms, a good future . if always doing the same thing as it

despite the dying day when I always felt most alive, I threw aside my crutches and took it in my hands , by the saddle and the handle-bars , intending to wheel it a little, back and forth , before getting on and leaving for ever this accursed place . the whole day had gone in this tom foolery and it was dusk again . it was as though the brakes were jammed , and heaven knows they were not, for my bicycle had ng brakes .

we report a case of a young woman who had a weakness for me . she was a victim of the dew , but she was not alone . despite her weakness , she squatted down beside me and began to make me propositions , to which she enun-ciated slowly and distinctly , repeating each clause several times , and finally elicited the following , or gist .

the right to contemplate from time to time this extraordinary body both at rest and in motion . every now and then I interrupted her, tp ask what town I was in . either because she did not understand me, or because she pre- 48 SAMUEL BECKETT ferred to leave me in ignorance , she didn't reply to my question , but went on with her soliloquy , then expounding further, slowly, gently, the benefits for both of us if I would make my home with her . this will give some ' idea of the time

we report a case of a woman who was squatting or kneeling beside me , whereas she was stretched out at my ease on the grass , now on my back . all the time she never stopped talking and only opened my mouth to ask , at long intervals , more and more feebly, what town we were in . and sure of her victory at last , or simply feeling she had done all she could and that further insistence was useless, she got up and went away , I don’t know where , for they might understand their foolishness .

this is the first case of a garden in a jar of jars . it was the first time that the jar was sealed , but it was not a sealed jar to which I owed my being so well preserved . a wall gave way and I filled with roots and tame stems for example stakes long since dead and ready for burning , the recess of night and the imminence of dawn , and then the labour of the planet rolling eager into winter , winter would rid it of these contemptible scabs which make no differ

the words I heard, and heard distinctly, having quite a sensitive ear, were heard a first time, then a second, and often even a third, as pure sounds , free of all meaning , and this is probably one of the reasons why conversation was unspeakably painful to me . a defect of the understanding perhaps, which only began to vibrate on repeated solicitations , or which did vibrate if you like, but at a lower frequency, or a higher, than that of ratiocination, if such a thing is conceivable, and such

despite my attempts at taste and smell were scarcely more fortunate , I smelt and tasted without knowing exactly what, nor whether it was good or bad , and seldom twice running the same thing . but now as to tell you why I stayed a good while with Lousse , no, I cannot . for that is to say if I took the trouble , why should I?

it was warm again the day I left, but that meant nothing in my part of the world, where it seemed to be warm or cold or merely mild at any moment of the year and where the days did not run gently up and down, no, not gently . perhaps things have changed since . so all I know is that it was much the same weather when I left as when I came, so far as I was capable of knowing what the weather was . and I had been under the weather so long, under all weathers, that I could tell quite well between them, my body could tell between them and seemed

this episode is so ludicrously brief when you think of it and so poor in substance . for I helped neither in the house nor the garden and knew nothing of what work was going forward , day and night , nothing save the sounds that came to me , dull sounds and sharp ones too , and then often the roar of air being vigorously churned , it seemed to me, and which perhaps was nothing more than the sound of burn- ing . the garden seemed hardly to change, from day to day, apart from the tiny changes due to the custom

the garden was surrounded with a high wall , its top bristling with broken glass like fins . it was never locked , of that I was all but convinced , having opened and closed it without the least trouble on more than one occasion , both by day and by night , and seen it used by others than myself , for the purpose as well of en- trance as of exit . a few further rerqprks were found within these precincts, and by pre- sume I do not mean a woman within these

the garden of mollo y 53 as I probably should, but the house too, but only men , with the obvious exception of Lousse . what I saw and did not see did not matter much admittedly , but I mention it all the same . she rarely showed herself to me , out of tact perhaps, fearing to alarm me . but I think she spied on me a great deal, hiding behind the bushes or the curtains , or skulking in the shadows of a first-floor room, with a spy-glass perhaps .

this is the par- ciple of advertising . it reminds me of air in a water-pipe . this period of my life is a grave charge to bring and I do not bring it lightly . the little I did eat I devoured with a voracity 54 SAMUEL BECKETT usually attributed to heavy eaters as a rule eat ponderously and with method , that follows from the very notion of heavy eating . whereas I flung myself at the mess, gulped down the half or the quarter of it in two

despite the fact that she insinuated thus into my various systems, she could not say whether they were stimulants or not rather depressants , she was virtually bereft of feeling , not to say of consciousness , and drowned in a deep and merciful torpor shot with brief abominable gleams , I give you my word . Against such har- mony of what avail the miserable molys of Loussc , administered in infinitesimal doses probably, to draw the pleasure out .

it seems to me I ate it as, when and where it best suited me . it was brought to me wherever I happened to be , on a tray . for the little i ate I crammed into my mouth with my hands , and the bottles I drank from the bottle were brought separately , in a basket . but this basket made no impression on me, good or bad, and I could not tell you what it was like . then I searched high and low, often with success, being fairly familiar with the places where it was likely to have been

it was then I regretted my sucking-stone . it must not be supposed that I opted for the least evil , and adopted it , for that would be wronc . but not knowing exactly what I was doing or avoiding, I did it and avoided it all unsuspecting that one day , much later, I would have to go back over all these acts and omissions, dimmed and mellowed by age, and drag them into the eudcmonistic slop . by which I mean that what was already wrong with me got

it is useless to drag out this chapter of my, how shall I say, my existence, for it has no sense, to my mind . it is a dug at which I tug in vain, it yields nothing but wind and spatter . so I will confine myself to the following brief additional remarks , and the first of which is this, that Lousse was a woman of extraor- dinary flatness, physically speaking of course to such a point that I am still wondering this evening, in the comparative silence of my last abode, if she was not a

the name was Edith . she had a hole between her legs, oh not the bunghole I had always imagined, but a slit , and in this I put , or rather she put, my so-called virile member , not without difficulty and I toiled and moiled until I discharged or gave up trying or was begged by her to stop . but I lent myself to it with a good enough grace knowing it was MOLLO Y 57 love , for she had told me so . it was the only position she could bear

we met in a rubbish dump, unlike any other, and yet they are all alike, rubbish dumps . she had no time to lose, but she had nothing to lose , she would have made love with a goat , to know what love was . it was full of dainty furniture , under our desperate strokes the couch moved forward on its castors , the whole place fell about our ears , it was pandemonium . her com- merce was not without tenderness , with trembling hands she cut my toe-nails

it seems to me that love is no doubt above such base contingencies , but when your frantic member casts about for a rubbing-place , and meeting with none does not beat in retreat . but when you add a little pedicure and massage , having nothing to do with the instant of bliss strictly speaking, then I feel no further doubt is justified , in this connection?

a chambermaid is a sex - based , self -abuse , which is the most common - to - end - of - life affair . it is very possible that everybody knew about it and spoke about it , with the sole exception of myself . but there is one thing that tor- ments me , when I delve into all this, and that is to know whether all my life has been devoid of love or whether I really met with it, in Ruth . here, we discuss the alleged joys of self-

we report a case of a man with a slew of flowers and herbaceous plants in a dog 's grave , which she had taken a dislike to , suspecting it to be the vehicle of some malignant agency and perhaps the cause of my recent misfortunes . she was afraid, if I tried to find out, of wearing out the small voice saying , for she had been hearing it for a long time .

we report a case of a nightwatchman who ensconced himself on a flight of stairs , in a mean lodging-house , because there was no door or it didn’t shut , I don’t know . a man came in soon after me and drove me out , and yet there was room for two . but he was a kind of night watchman , he must have been employed to watch over some kind of public works .

a narrow alley between two high buildings is a common occurrence , but it is not so much an alley as a blind alley . here lovers must have lain at night and exchange their vows . a few minutes later I crossed the alley into the other chapel , that’s the word , yvhere I felt I might feel better , and settled myself in the same hypotenusal posture . at first I did actually seem to feel a little better .

a fine rain was falling and I took off my hat to give my skull the benefit of it, my skull all cracked and furrowed and on fire, on fire . but I also took it off because it was digging into my neck , because of the thrust of the wall . so I had two good reasons for taking it off and they were none too many, neither alone would ever have prevailed I feel . I threw it from me with a careless lavish gesture and back it came, at the end of its string or lace, and after a few throws came to

this is a nursery tale of a life-sentence , but only from time to time , so that it may be 62 SAMUEL BECKETT said, if necessary, whenever necessary . I record them all the more willingly . in the end I left the im- passe, where half-standing, half-lying I may have had a little sleep or my little morning sleep , and I set off towards the sun , why not, the wind having fallen . as to making up my mind which quarter of the heavens was the least gloomy 

a young man of wretched aspect , shivering all alone in a narrow doorway , suddenly remembered the project conceived the day of my en- counter with Lousse and her dog and which this encounter had prevented me from carrying out . he went out into the rain and away . for this speech was one liable, in virtue of its content, if not to offend at least to astonish . here a clever fellow , let me follow his example .

the cross of the true sawing-horse is not perfect crosses, but truncated at the top , whereas the crosses of the little object I am referring to were perfect . it consisted of two crosses joined, at their points of intersection, by a bar., and resembled a tiny sawing horses , with this difference however , that the crosses were not perfect , but was a perfect cross . for this little object did not seem to have any base properly so-called, but stood with equal stability on any one of its true

this is a series of little flights , skimming the ground . it is the thronging sound in wind and limb , who have to fasten one foot to the ground before they dare lift up the other . a few days later , we have a case of rapture , or there should be , in the motion crutches give . this is the first time that we have been able to affirm anything on this subject . here we report a brief review of the literature on this topic .

despite the fact that my mind was still taken up with my mother, and with the desire to know if I was near her, it was gradually less so, perhaps because of the silver in my pockets, but I think not, and then too because these were ancient cares and the mind cannot always brood on the same cares, but needs fresh cares from time to time , so as to revert with renewed vigour , when the time comes, to Ancient cares . it would be hard for me to prove it .

this phenomenon, if I remember rightly, was characteristic of my region . if my region had ended no further than my feet could carry me, surely I would have felt it changing slowly . for regions do not suddenly end , as far as my feet can carry me , surely i would have had felt it shifting slowly if it had ended .

if it is true that regions gradually merge into one another, and this remains to be proved, then I may well have left mine many times, thinking I was still within it . if this is so, that my movements owed nothing to the places they caused to vanish , but were due to something else , to the buckled wheel that carried me , in unforeseeable jerks , from fatigue to rest , and inversely , for example . now I do not wander any more , anywhere any more, and indeed I scarcely stir at all, and yet nothing is

we report a case of a town in which the town was a small town . a few years ago , the town of the town had been renamed as the town , but it was not really my town or not . in this case report , we describe a city in which a village in the town is a great place to be . the town has a history of molesting the couple .

the dan- gerous time is the time for lynching, for sleep is sacred, and especially the morning, between breakfast and lunch . it may begin again in the early afternoon , after the banquet, the celebrations, the con- gratulations , the orations , but it’s nothing compared to the morn- ing, mere fun . coming up to four or five of course there is the night-shift, the watchmen, beginning to bestir themselves . come up to 4 or five , bowed down like a good boy 

a zoological gar dens is broken only by the innocent laughter, the knowiife laughter, of children and 68 SAMUEL BECKETT their elders , on Sundays and Bank Holidays . for death is a condition I have never been able to conceive to my satisfaction and which therefore cannot go down in the ledger of weal and woe . my notions on being put to death inspired me with confidence , rightly or wrongly , and I felt I was entitled to act on them in certain emergencies . the confusion of my ideas on

weary of these inventions and others beckon to me . but in order to blacken a few more pages may I say I spent some time at the seaside, without incident . here we report a case of a seaside shivering expanse , to the sound of the waves in storm and calm , and the claws of the surf .

a prob- lem was solved in the following way : a stone from the right pocket of my greatcoat , and putting it in my mouth , I replaced it in the right pockets of my trousers , which I replaced by the stone which was in the mouth . the stones were a keel grating on the shore , but they were not quite the same stones . here , we present a case of a large prob-lem which was solved by a glass lem .

the aim of this study was to investigate the effect of sucking the stones on the circulation of the stones from pocket to pocket . a few years later , the stones circulating thus might always be the same four . in this paper , we describe a case of sucking the stones in the right pocket of my greatcoat , and then transferring them in the hope of obtaining a more general circulation .

the circulation of the stones four by four came to exactly the same thing as their circulation one by one . for if I was certain of finding each time, in the right pocket of' my greatcoat, four stones totally different from their immediate predecessors, the possibility never- theless remained of my always chancing on the same stone, within each group of four, and consequently of my sucking , not the sixteen turn and turn about as I wished , but in fact four only , always the same, turn and turns about as they were . if at a pinch I could double

if I was tempted for an instant to establish a more equitable proportion between my stones and my pockets, by reduc- ing the latter to the number of the latter, it would have been an admission of defeat . for just as I had difficulty sitting on a chair, or in an arm-chair, because of my stiff leg you understand, so I had none in sitting on the ground . while I gazed thus at my stones , revolving interminable martingales all equally defective , and crushing Handfuls of sand , so that the strand ran through my

this is the first time that we have encountered a solution to this problem , in all its hideousness . the first solution was to put for example six stones in the right pocket of my great- 72 SAMUEL BECKETT coat , or supply-pocket , and five in the left pocket of the trousers , that makes the lot , twice five ten plus six sixteen, and none, for none remained, in my greatcoat , which for the lot twice five five plus six 16 remained , whereas none of them remained in the pocket of a greatcoat

a stone from the right pocket of my greatcoat is empty of stones that is, for its usual contents remained, as well as occa- sional objects . the six stones that I have just sucked, one after the other, are all in the left pocket of the greatcoat . now , I can begin to suck . watch me closely . i take a second stone from my right pocket and stop sucking it . and so on until a right pocket is empty (apart from its usual and casual contents) . this is to say with other

it is true that the next time I could scarcely hope to suck my stones in the same order as the first time and that the first, seventh and twelfth for example of the first cycle might very well be the sixth, eleventh and sixteenth respec- tively of the second , if the worst* came to the worst . if in the cycles taken together utter confusion was bound to reign , at least within each cycle taken separately I could be easy to avoid .

in order for each cycle to be identical, as to the succession of stones in my mouth, and God knows I had set my heart on it, the only means were numbered stones or sixteen pockets , and rather than make twelve more pockets or number my stones , I preferred to make the best of the comparative peace of mind I enjoyed within each cycle taken separately . for it was not enough to number the stones, but I would have had to remember, every time I put a stone in his mouth, the number I needed and look for it in my pocket . the only perfect solution would have been the sixteen pockets

it is true that a kind of equilibrium was reached, at a given moment, in the early stages of each cycle, namely after the third suck and before the fourth , but it did not last long , and the rest of the time I felt the weight of the stones dragging me now to one side, now to the other . so it was something more than a principle I abandoned , when I abandoned the equal distribution, it was a bodily need . here then were two incompatible bodily needs at loggerheads . deep down it was all the same to me

we report a case of a young woman coming towards me and stopping from time to time to look back at her companions . it is her back , as she goes away , now it is towards me she looks back, but without stopping . but perhaps I am merging two times in one , in one and in another .

the seaside is one of the advantages and disadvantages of a seaside . for those who came towards me I saw coming from afar most of the time, that is a one of their advantages . to be taken unawares was so to speak impossible , for I turned often towards the land too . yes, ranging far and wide over these vast flats , where nothing lay, nothing stood , my good eye saw more clearly and there were even days when the bad one too had to look away . here, we report a case of my mother whose image was blunted

inland , for my town was not strictly speaking on the sea , whatever may have been said to the contrary . for between my town and the sea there wal a kind of swamp which . it is true they actually began to work and that work is still going on in certain areas in the teeth of adversity, setbacks, epidemics and the apathy of the Public Works Department , far from me to deny it . but from this to pro- claiming that the sea came lapping at the ramparts of my town , there was a far cry

the stiff leg hurts me, admittedly, I mein the old stiff leg , and it was the other MOLLO Y 77 which I normally used as a pivot , or prop . but now this latter, a result of its stiffening , was beginning to hurt me even more than the other . for the old pain, do you follow me, I had got used to it , in a way, yes, yes , yes. a nuisance , because of the other leg, supple hitherto and now growing rapidly stiff in its turn, but not

in a way, if you like, I still had one bad leg and one good, or rather less bad, with this difference however, that the less bad now was the less good of heretofore . it was therefore on the old bad leg that I often longed to lean between one crutchstroke and the next . the other, though stiffening, was not yet shortening , or so far behind its fellow that to all intents and purposes, I’m lost, no matter . if I could even have bent it at the knee, or even at the hip

for how could I bend it, when it was stiff? I was therefore compelled to work the same old leg as heretofore, in spite of its having become, at least as far as the pain was concerned, the worse of the two arJ the more in need of nursing.sometimes to be sure, when I was lucky enough to chance on a road conveniently cambered, or by taking advantage of a not too deep ditch or any other breach of surface, I managed to lengthen my short leg, for a short time that it did not know how to go about it .

my progress suffered, from this state of affairs, and from the slow and painful progress it had always been, whatever may have been said to contrary, was changed, saving your presence, to a veritable cal- vary, with no limit to its stations and no hope of crucifixion , though I say it myself , and no Simon, and reduced me to frequent halts . although it is no part of my tottering intentions to treat here in full, as they deserve, these brief moments of the immemorial expiation, I shall never- theless deal with

this is perhaps the moment to observe, better late than never, that when I speak of my progress being slowed down consequent on the defection of my good leg, I express only an infini- tesimal part of the truth . for the truth is I had other weak points, here and there, and they too were growing weaker and weaker , as was only to be expected . the speed at which their weakness had increased , since my depar- ture from the seaside . if sudden changes of colour matter less at night, the least unusual noise is then more noticeable,

seaside my weak points, while admittedly increasing in weakness, as was only to be expected, only increased imperceptibly, in weakness I mean . so that I would have hesitated to exclaim, with my finger up my arse-hole for example, Jesus-Christ, it’s much worse than yesterday, I can barely believe it is the same hole . perhaps is less to be thought of as the eyesore here called by its name *han as the symbol of those passed over in silence , a distinc- tion due perhaps to its centrality and its air of being

this is a connec- tion of my excellent leg , or because there was in fact nothing special to report , in this conn tion . but i had hardly left the shore , harried by the dread of waking one fine day , far from my mother, with my two legs as stiff as my crutches , when they suddenly began to gallop , my weak points did, and their weakness became literally the weakness of death , with all the disadvantages that this entails . this is covered by the business of my legs

uremia will never be the death of me . how I eliminate, to be sure , urethra , is a dribble . this list of my weak points I shall never draw up , for fear of its finishing me , and perhaps one day when the time come for the inventory of my goods and chattels . if it ever dawns , I shall be less afraid of being finished than I am today .

82 SAMUEL BECKETT presentiments are very often the case with the best presentiment , that you can make no sense of them . but can any more sense be made of false presents? I think so, yes, I think that all that is false may more readily be reduced, to notions clear and distinct, distinct from all other notions . But I may be wrong .

if my progress was becoming more and more slow and painful, this was not due solely to my legs, but also to innumerable so-called weak points, having nothing to do with my legs . unless one is to suppose, gratuitously, that they and my legs were part of the same syndrome , which in that case would have been of a diabolical complexity . the fact is , and I deplore it, but it is too late now to do anything about it, that I have laid too much stress on my legs throughout these wanderings to the detriment

the forest was all about me and the boughs, twining together at a prodigious height, compared to mine . when my comfort was at stake there was no trouble I would not go to . to say I stumbled in impenetrable darkness, no, I cannot . for there reigned a kind of blue gloom, more than sufficient for my visual needs .

a char- coal-burner was born in the forest probably and had spent his whole life there . his reply was ex- ceedingly confused . he grew eloquently confused and he did not understand a word .

a few paces meant something, when I turned and went back to where he lay , to examine him . Seeing he had not ceased to breathe , I contented myself with giving him warm kicks in the ribs , with my heels . this is how I went about it . I carefully chose the most favourable position , a couple paces from the body, with the back of course turned to it , and nicely balanced on my crutches . then, nicely balanced, I began to swing backwards, forwards, feet pressed

awk- MOLLOY 85 ward assailant, in your own class what, and a lonely place, and you have a good chance of showing what stuff you are made of . it is doubtless in order to revive interest in this possibility, too often forgotten, that I have delayed over an incident of no interest in itself , like all that has a moral . ah yes, carobs , so dear to goats .

86 SAMUEL BECKETT I was there , and it was not only no worse , to my mind , but it w£s better , in this sense , that 86 - ''as not so bad being in the forest , I could imagine worse and l could have stayed there till I died , unrepining , yes, without pining for the light and the plain and the other amenities of my region . for it -''the light of the plain, its pale wild eddies, through the bronze- still

it is not, of looking at things . for being in the forest , a place neither worse nor better than the others , and being free to stay there , was it not natural I should think highly of it , not because of what it was , but because I was there. And being there I did not have to go there, and that was not to be despised , seeing the state of my legs and my body in general . that is all I wished to say, and if it did not say it at the outset it is simply that something was against it .

if I had never succeeded in liquidating this matter of my mother, the fault must not be imputed solely to that voice which deserted me prematurely . for the outer world opposed my suc- ceeding too , with its wiles , I have given some examples . even if the voice could have harried me to the very scene of action, even then I might well have succeeded no better , because of the other obstacles barring my way .

this command which faltered, then died, it was hard not to hear the unspoken entreaty . in forever reminding me thus of my duty was its purpose to show me the folly of it? Perhaps it did no more than stress , the better to mock if you like, an innate velleity . of myself, all my life, I think I had been going to my mother with the purpose of establishing our relations on a less precarious footing . when I was no longer with her, and I often succeeded, I left her without having done anything .

we report a case of a woman whose mother was a sex slave , who was born in the middle of the 20th century . she was the first woman to be a slave to the oratio recta . he was the second woman to have been killed , and he had been killed in a carcinogen . his mother , a sergeant , was able to express his own voice .

the long halt is a long march , but it does not necessarily follow from that of the short march . it seems to me all the more important to get out of this forest with all possible speed as i would very soon be powerless to go out of anything whatsoever , were it but a bower . the gloom, if it seemed less blue than before, was as thick as ever . but it is less blue because there is less green . and it is no less thick thanks to the leaden winter sky , and the black dripping from the black boughs

a horn goes well with the forest if to nothing else , and to succeed only in hearing , at long intervals , in the far distance , a gong . it was mortify-ing , to have been looking forward to the celebrated murmurs if not to anything else . for a moment I dared hope it was only my heart, still beating , not my heart . to the leaves too I listened attentively in vain . they made no sound , motionless and rigid, like brass , have I said that before? a

if you want to rest you stop and rest, without further ado , and there are men who 90 SAMUEL BECKETT move about sitting, and even kneeling, hauling themselves to right and left, forward and backward , with the help of hooks . the advantage of this mode of loco- motion compared to others, I mean those that have worn me out . for standing there is no rest , nor sitting either . but there are those who have tried , is this , that when you wish to rest and rest he stops and rest without further

the plains of a town , which of course I could not assume was mine , looked alike , when you knew one you knew them all . the plan seemed familiar , but in my region all MOLLOY 91 were familiar . in any case , it was a plain , the plain . it was in the horizon and the towers and steeples of the adipose . if the plain was in a ditch that opened my eyes v/as the fall into the ditch , I did not see it from a

we report a case of a man in a moored moor , in which the urchins fumbled in vain . he stooped down to the bottom of the ditch and picked up his marble . the two travellers came back to my memory . one had a club. I had forgotten them. I saw the sheep again . there seemed to be rain, then sunshine , turn about . I longed to go over that vast moor, where my crutches would roll on to my mother’s door , and then?

we report a case of a libertarian view of the eagle-owl , a sailor , and a young man . he was savour- ing the day of rest , while deploring the importance attached to it , in certain parishes . it all depended on the state MOLLOY 93 of mind of him who worked, or played, and on the nature of his work , of his play . to work, even to play on Sunday was not of necessity reprehensible in my opinion 

the sab- bath, so long as you go to mass and contribute to the collection, may be considered a day like any other, in certain respects . this did not affect me personally . Seeing something done which I could tthve done better myself, if I had wished, and which I did do better whenever I put my mind to it, I had the impression of discharging a function to which no form of activity could have exalted me . but this was a joy in which, during the week, I could seldom indulge .

this man was not a neighbor whose dealings were strictly of a business nature and he had journeyed from afar on purpose to disturb me . so I was dis- posed to receive him frostily enough , all the more so as she had the impertinence to come straight to where I was sitting , under my Beauty of Bath . but at the noise of the gate being slammed I turned angrily and saw, blurred by the leaves , this high mass bearing down on me, across the lawn .

Jacques went away grumb- ling with his finger in his mouth, a detestable and unhygienic habit, but preferable, all things considered, to that of the finger in the nose , in my opinion . he took a notebook from his pocket and began to read . every now and then he closed MOLLOY 95 the notebook , taking care to leave his fingers in it as a marker , and indulged in comments and observations of which I had no need , for I knew my business .

we agents often amused ourselves with grumbling among our- selves and giving ourselves the airs of free men . in that case it’s hard for me to refuse , I said , knowing perfectly well that in any case it was impossible to refuse.refuse . but we agents frequently amuse ourselves with gumbling among ourselves with our selves . for this kind of nonsense , he added . he wiped the lining of his bowler, peering inside as if in search of something .

despite the fact that the presence of my son at twelve o’clock mass was inconceivable , he had escaped from mass . he was reprimanded , and he has gone to mass alone . for it was imperative my son should not imagine that he could not lie to me with impunity . and if Father Ambrose could not enlighten me.

the verger had a list of the faithful and that, from his place beside the font, he ticked us off when it came to the absolution . it is only fair to say that Father Ambrose knew nothing of these manoeuvres , yes, anything in the nature of surveillance was hateful to the good Father ambrose . a strange parish whose flock knew more than its pastor of a circumstance which seemed rather in his province than in theirs . but tonight I find it strange I could have thought of such things, I mean my son, my lack of breeding .

the lager was already acting on me , the poison I had just been given . the poison had already been acting on my breed , and the poison that was just being given was absorbed by the eucharist . if he was about to commit sacrilege , he would be given the body of Christ after a pint of Wallenstein . but would the Eucharist produce the same effect on top of beer , however light? I could always try .

if I were ill , my Sunday midday meal especially smelt good in the kitchen . she flung herself at her pots and pans , dumb with anger , and her capable of poisoning me . you can have the whole day off tomorrow , if that is any good to you . he knew my habits and my Sunday habits .

if you are beset with enemies, as I am, you cannot leave on your autocycle, even in the night, without being noticed unless you employ it as an ordinary bicycle , which is absurd . if I was in the habit of first settling on my autocycle , if it is an ordinary bike , it is absurd.the question with which I began was that it was the first problem to solve , at the outset of each enquiry , and I never moved until I had solved it to my satisfaction .

this delicate question of transport, it was never without having, if not fully sifted, at least taken into account the factors on which it depended . in the present case I was tackling the problem of transport with no other preparation than the languid cognizance I had taken of Gaber’s report . but I had not yet troubled to do so, I had avoided doing so , saying. The affair is banal. To try and solve this problem under such conditions was madness . yet that was what I was doing. But in my ignorance of the reasons against it

we report a case of my son , who was diagnosed with deceit . he was able to speak from experience , but he did not know if he might go out . this is a very otiose decision but for my son, who burst in wanting to know whether he may go out. I controlled myself . He was wiping his mouth with the back of his hand , a thing I do not like to see . but there are nastier gestures, I speak from experiences . to the Elm

he was a man of the world and knowing its ways , he who never smoked . he offered me a cigar which he accepted with good grace and put in my pocket , between my fountain-pen and my propelling-pencil . but he flattered himself . I asked him if he had noticed my son at the last mass . so he called for the dear child who reassured me .

a chemist , who was a highly qualified chemian , was able to get his kit . he had a kind of portable pyx , opened it , and dispatched me without an instant’s hesitation . it seemed obvious to me he suspected nothing , or did it amuse him to see how far he would go? he gave me the sacrament , his sin , if sin there be, is as great as mine .

bicarbonate of soda is a good alternative to bicarbonates of soda , but it is not . it can be used as a substitute for bicarbonated soda . he cried , flushing with pleasure, have her swallow a few dessertspoonfuls , several times a day , for a couple months . she cried and flushed with pleasure .

this interview with Father Ambrose left me with a painful impression . he was still the same dear man, and yet not . the host, it is only fair to say, was lying heavy on my stomach . as I made my way home I felt like one who, having swallowed a pain-killer, is first astonished, then indignant on ob- taining no relief .

if there is one thing I abhor, it is someone coming into my room, without knocking . if you had knocked a hundred times , I replied , it would not give you the right to come in without being invited . but what? I said. You told me to be here at half- past four , he said. I said . the liliaceae papa ! My son had a way of saying papa, when he wanted to hurt me, that was very special .

we are not going into the wilderness , but he’s a very good dentist , he said . he had an ache , in a bicuspid but it was over . my son had a con- versation well , and he has naturally very bad teeth .

he was born with bad teeth , said Py , and all his life he will have bad teeth. Naturally I shall do what I can . Meaning, I was bom with the disposition to do all I can, all my life i shall do all my can, necessarily. I was down to my incisors, the nippers. Is it still raining? I said. My son had drawn a small glass from his pocket and was examining the inside of his mouth , prising away his upper lip with his finger . he said , without inter

we are leaving for one day, two days, three days, a week, two weeks , God knows, goodbye . she would have served us dinner in any case , as she did every day . I had made the mistake of putting herself in her place . to tell her we would dine at home, what a blunder . it was understandable . a second mistake was my not having enjoined my son to keep what I had told him to himself .

the Eisner sisters were not bad neighbours, as neigh- bours go . they made a little too much music, that was the only fault I cr ild find with them . if there is one thing gets on my nerves it is music . what I assert, deny, question, in the present, I still can. But mostly I shall use the various tenses of the past .

this is an irrevocable decision . it was justified moreover by the state of the moon . we agents never took anything in writing . Gaber was not an agent in the sense I was . a messenger had to be possessed of singular qualities , good messengers were even more rare than good agents .

the messengers were not compelled to undergo a surgical operation , to induce in in them such a degree of amnesia . if he had lost a second he would have forgotten everything , both text and gloss . we have heard Gaber speak of his childhood and of his family in extremely plausible terms . to be undecipherable to all but one-self, dead without knowing it to the meaning of one’s instructions and incapable of remembering them for more than a few seconds , these are capacities rarely united in the same individual .

lucidity is one of the most important aspects of a vast organisation . it is based on the fact that they received a weekly wage of eight pounds as against ours of six pounds ten only , these figures being exclusive of bonuses and travelling expenses . but when I speak of agents and of messengers in the plural, it is with no guarantee of truth . for the feeling that we were the only ones of our kind would, I believe, have been more than we could have borne . so I was able to say to Gaber, Let him give this job to someone else,

the chief (one Youdi) is the chief who is solely responsible for his wretched existence . if he has not sunk back into my darkness I might have gone to the extreme of conjuring away the chief too and regarding myself as solely liable for my wreetched existence.but I was not made for the great light that devours, a dim lamp was all I had been given, and patience without end, to shine it on the empty shadows . she was sitting in her rocking-chair, in the chimney-corner, rocking herself mood

lager is one of the most valuable and valuable lagers in the world . it is a very rare and valuable collection , which he was in the habit of gloating over daily and could not bring himself to leave , even for a few days . this is the first case of lager .

it was a bargain to have him admit it . he had been lacking in respect , but this was not the moment to have his adolescence . this is the first time he has admitted it , and he is a sailor . it has been reported that he was not a good man .

sorrow does more harm when dumb, to my mind.the albums under my arm, I returned to my room . I had spared my son a grave temptation that of putting in his pocket his most cherished stamps in order to gloat on them during our journey . not that his having one or two stamps about him was reprehensible in itself . but it would have been an act of disobed- ience . to look at them he would have had to hide from his father . if he could not really bear to be parted from the

despite all the trouble I had taken and was still to take , the doubt would be sown . it is lying down in the warmth, in the gloom that I best pierce the outer turmoil’s veil, discern my quarry, sense what course to follow, find peace in another’s ludicrous distress . far from the world, its clamours, frenzies, bitterness and dingy light, I pass judgement on it and on those, 4ike me, who are plunged in it beyond recall , and on him who has need

a phe- nomena - saline is a very rare occurrence in the world , where all things move with the ponderous sullenness of oxen , patiently through the immemorial ways , and where of course no investigation would be possible . it is at the mercy of these sensations which happily I know to be illusory, that I have to live and work . but on this occasion, my reasons for doing so were I trust more serious and imputable less to pleasure than 112 SAMUEL B

if anyone else had spoken to me of Molloy if not myself and to whom could I have spoken of him? i racked my mind in vain . for in my rare conversations with men I avoided such subjects . if someone else had spoke to me , 1 would have requested him to stop and I myself would not have confided his existence to a living soul for anything in the world .

the acoustics are so bad , they are a syllable . if we incline towards ose , it was doubtless that my mind had a weakness for this ending , whereas the others left it cold . here , we report a case of a young man , who was compelled to admit that he should have said Molloy and that in saying Mollose he was at fault .

despite this he advanced 114 SAMUEL BECKETT but slowly . he had only to rise up within me for me to be filled with panting . even in open country he seemed to be crashing through jungle . although he did not so much walk as charge , he swayed , to and fro , like a bear . this was how he came to me , at long intervals . then he stopped and glared furiously about him .

to conceive what had brought him to such a pass, he was no better able to imagine how , left to his own resources, could put an end to it . a natural end seemed unlikely to me, I don’t know why . but then my own natural end, and I was resolved to have no other, would it not at the same time be his? Modest, I had my doubts . then again, what end is not natural, are they not all by the grace of nature, the undeniably good and the so-called bad? Idle con

the molloy was a poor thing, compared to others . but images of this kind the will cannot revive without doing them violence . much of what they had it takes away, much they never had it foist upon them . so far as the essen- tial features were concerned , I was easy in my mind, the like- ness was there . the discrepancy could have been still greater for all I cared for . for what I was doing , it was in its essence anonymous and would subsist, haunting the minds of men, when its miserable

a fifth molloy of Youdi is a rt for Gaber's corpse fidelity to the letter of his messages . he had only revealed what he deemed of relevance for the prompt and proper execution of his orders . for could it seriously be supposed that youdi had confided to Gaber all he knew, or thought he was a protege ? assuredly not . but would not this fifth Molloo coincide with the fourth, the real one as saying is, he dogged by his shadow?

the term is a little difficult for juveniles , having explained its meaning and application . a few of us are in this charming home , and we have three of us . we are in a charming home and we are all in this home .

we had the cold remains of a fowl, chicken, duck, goose, turkey , from Saturday evening . a great joy , it is hardly too much to say, surged over me at the sight of so much beauty , so much promise . the joy inspired by beauty is often not unmixed , and saw in front of me what with good reason I had called the sequel .

a stomach-ache is a pungency , but it is not known what it is . fortunately , he was still young and inexperienced and I refrained from humbling him . here , we report a case of a man who had a tempera- ture .

savour at the time, and they must have been many, he could reflect on at his leisure or seek in company with his little friends to interpret as best he might . but at the same time I inclined his young mind towards that most fruitful of dispositions, horror of the body and its functions . it was while examining the shepherd’s pie more narrowly that I had this after- thought . I lifted the crust with my spoon and looked inside . my dog wouldn’t touch it .

if he fell seriously ill on the way, it would be another matter . it was not for nothing I had studied the old testament . Suddenly , I remembered Father Ambrose’s cigar . I lit it . we went upstairs. I gave him an enema , with salt water. He struggled, but not for long. I with- drew the nozzle .

the iodex is a rare , inflammatory , and inflammatory process . it is characterized by a wide range of fibrou and fibrous , which are a major cause of inflammation . this is the first case of an acute pain shot through my knee . a few cases of acute pain have been reported .

if you want to try a real emetic , you might have a little sleep and then we’ll leave together . you can never be sure with that little hypocrite . I drew him to me. What do you say to that? I said. He said to it. Yes papa. Did he love me then as much as I loved him? He asked for a report he’ll get his report .

it was for her to decide if it was worth- while going to bed, under these conditions . she asked me how long I expected to be away . when she went up to tell my son to come down, she must have noticed the knap- sack . then almost in the same breath, seeing her so old, worse than old, ageing, so sad and solitary in her ever- lasting corner . there, there, it won’t be long .

a giraffe grazing off the top of a palm-tree was found to be all there . it proved nothing . 122 SAMUEL BECKETT and clearly stated , would deal a blow to my authority which it was in no condition to sustain .

besides my son rarely spoke to me unless I spoke to him unless he answered but lamely and as it were with reluctance . that my presence had the effect of dampening this disposition was far from displeasing me . not one person in a hundred knows how to be silent and listen, no, nor even to conceive what such a thing means . yet only then can you detect, beyond the fatuous clamour, the silence of which the universe is made .

a man like me cannot forget, in his evasions, what it is he evades . he had forgotten the bear (Baby Jack) and he would forbid him forbid the bear to hug . when he forgot the bear , he forbids him to forbid his bear . this is the first time he has escaped from the garden .

t.iere it is, in a house without a gas-oven I would not have felt easy . in the night, interrupting my prowl, I like to go up to a window, lit or unlit, and look into the room , to see what is going on . for me then from their darkness the darkest rooms emerge, as if still instant with the vanished day or with the light turned out a moment before , for a minute before . it brought me a semblance of pardon and a brief moment of factitious

the gloaming in the kitchen was of another kind and came from the night-light with the red chimney which, in Martha’s room, adjoining the kitchen, burned eternally at the feet of a litle Virgin carved in wood, hanging on the wall . weary of rocking herself she had gone in and lain down on her bed , leav- ing the door of her room open so as to miss none of the sounds in the house . perhaps she had disappeared to sleep . for my son slept noisily, with open mouth . the unheard

a cloak is a serviceable garment and it leaves great freedom of movement to the arms and at the same time conceals them . the umbrella too has great merits . if it had been winter, or even autumn, instead of summer, I might have taken both . it is essential to call forth feelings of pity and indulgence , to be the butt of jeers and hilarity , is indispensable .

if a widower had desired my failure he could not have devised a better means to it . if 1 could have reflected with my usual calm on the work I was required to do , it would perhaps have seemed of a nature more likely to benefit than to suffer by the presence of my son . but let us not go back on that . perhaps I could pass him off as my resistant , or a mere nephew .

a massive chain, attached to my braces, prevents me from losing them . this chain, four or five times longer than necessary, lies, coiled, on the bunch, in my pocket . it is a huge chain attached to the braces , which prevents my son from losing their keys . the key to it goes with me wherever I go . a large chain is attached to morphine tablets, my favourite sedative .

we haven’t a moment to lose , but we have no time to lose.a few hours’ sleep however deep are not enough for an organism in the first stages of puberty suffering from stomach trouble . when I began to shake him and help him out of bed, pulling him first by the arms, then by the hair, he turned away from me in fury , to the wall, and dug his nails into the mattress . he had to muster all my strength to overcome his resistance . but I had hardly freed him from the bed when he broke from my

the path was too narrow 128 SAMUEL BECKETT for us to walk abreast . a chopping-block that lay there and on which in winter , tranquilly, I split my logs . the blade sank into it so deeply that I could not get it out . it was so deep that it could not be out , and the efforts I made to do so brought me, with exhaustion, calm .

if the truth were known, I did not do it at all, I got Christy to do it . it was full of songbirds , their heads under their wings , fearing nothing , for they knew me . the cock no longer sought her out to tread her angrily . if she did not take a turn for the better, when the other hens would join forces and tear her to pieces , with their beaks and claws . all was silent .

a few years ago , my son was seen capering in the streets like the little hooligans he frequented on the sly . he walked like his father , with rapid steps , his head up , breathing even and economical, his arms swinging , looking neither to left nor right , apparently oblivious to everything and in reality missing nothing . but with me he invariably took the wrong turn , a crossing or a simple corner was all he needed to stray from the right road , it of my election

a long rope , its two ends tied about our waists , is one of the best ways of attracting attention . he might have undone his knots in silence and escaped , leaving me to go on my way alone , followed by a short rope trailing in the dust , like a burgess of Calais . we should have needed , not the soft silent rope, but a chain , which was not to be dreamt of .

a simple chain , without collar or band or gyves or fetters of any kind , could chain my son to me in such a way as to prevent him from ever shaking me off again . but already I was called elsewhere by the image of my son no longer behind me, but before me . thus in the rear I could keep my eye on him and inter- vene, at the least false movement he might make . here , we cried for on hearing me say we were to go to the left , as if his dearest wish was to infuri

this knife com- prised, apart from the five or six indispensable blades , a cork-screw, tin-opener, punch , screw-driver, and a gouge for removing MOLLOY 131 stones from hooves and I know not what other futilities besides . he had no equal for the dates of battles, revolutions, restorations and other exploits of the human race , in its slow slow and slow slow slow .

a scout-knife is a great tool for a young man . he was a little on the young side for the great deeds of vengeance , but time was on his side and he consoled himself perhaps with that thought , foolish though it was . his son could as well as his son , unless he can afford to buy another , which was not the case with my son .

the rage which distorted his features and made him tremble would never leave him till the day he could vent it as it deserved . but not even then . he must have felt his soul the soul of a pocket Monte Cristo , with whose antics as adumbrated in the Schoolboys’ Classics he was needless to say familiar . then with a good clap on that impotent back I said. Off we go. And off 132 SAMUEL BECKETT indeed I did go, what is more, and

it is within me and exhorts me to continue to the end the faithful servant I have always been, of a cause that is not mine, and patiently fulfil in all its bitterness my calamitous part, as it was my will, when I had a will, that others should.but it is rather an ambiguous voice and not always easy to follow, in its reasonings and decrees . but I follow it none the less , more or less, and follow it in this sense , that I know what it means, and in the sense that it tells me .

this is a penance that is one of the features of this penance , that I may not pass over what is over and straightway come to the heart of the matter . but that must again be unknown to me which is no longer so and that again fondly believed which then I fondly thought , at my setting out . if I occasionally break this rule, it is only over details of little im- portance . and in the main I observe it .

this region was situated in the north of the molloy country in relation to mine, less bleak, and comprised a settlement, dignified by some with the name of market-town , by others re- garded as no more than- a village . this region represented , with its dependent lands , a surface area of five or six square square . the region was represented by a lands of 5 or 6 square , and represented by its depending lands, an ad- ministrative limits he had never crossed and presumably never

in modern countries this is what I think is called a commune, or a canton , but there exists with us no abstract and generic term for such territorial subdivisions . to express them we have another system , of singular beauty and simplicity , which consists in saying Bally (since we are talking of Bally) when you mean Bally plus its domains and Ballybabawhen you mean the domains ex- clusive of bally itself . the principal beauty of this region was a kind of strangled creek which the slow grey tides emptied and filled, empt

the land of Ballyba was small . the land did not lend itself to cultiva-tion . no sooner did a tilth begin to be sizeable than it fell foul of a sacred grove or a stretch of marsh from which nothing could be obtained beyond a little inferior turf or scraps of bogoak used for making amuldts, paper-knives, napkin-rings, rosaries and other knickknacks . here only quitchweed grew in abundance and a curious bitter blue grass fatal to cows and

this was the outstanding event of the first day . 136 SAMUEL BECKETT I showed my son how to use his pocket-compass . this gave him great pleasure. He was behaving well , better than I had hoped . on the third day he gave him back his knife . we easily managed our ten miles a day. We slept in the open . safety first. I showed his son what to do .

we made a wide detour and turned our faces to the north again . the right thing would have been to travel by night and hide during the day, at least in the early stages . but the weather was so fine I could not bring myself to do it . such a thing had never happened to me before , in the course of my work . I gave fitful thought , while basking in the balm of the warm summer days, to Gaber’s instructions .

the Yerk affair, which took me nearly three months to conclude successfully, was over on the day I suc- ceeded in possessing myself of his tiepin and destroying it . a most delicate affair, for the person concerned was not a woman . I regret it. I don’t think Youdi had much interest in them . the hour was the important thing , not the date .

in some secluded place , it was only natural I should withdraw , out of delicacy . I can see him still, looking after me . he would have liked me for a friend . she lost interest in my patients, once I had finished with them . no con- clusions need be drawn from this .

the first thing to do was to find Molloy, that then I would devise something, that there was no hurry, that the thing would come back to me when I least expected it and that if, having found Mollay, I still did not know what to do with him, I could always manage to get in touch with Gaber without Youdi’s knowing . a telegraph in Ballyba was not beyond his powers . but the longer I took to find mollooy the greater my chances of remembering what I was doing with him . the longer

the pain recurred a few minutes later , but not so bad to me because I was expecting it? Or did it only seem less bad for me because we were expecting it already? I think not . but before getting to sleep again I had time to remember that the pain in question was not altogether new to me . for it had only attacked me once and never regained , till now . and then a little reassured, saying . it is a touch of neuralgia brought on by all the tramping and trudging and the chill damp nights ,

unable to get up is a difficult task . it is easy to talk about being unable , whereas in reality nothing is more difficult . because of the will I suppose, which the least opposition seems to lash into a fury . this explains no doubt how it was I despaired at first ever bending my leg again and then, a little later, through sheer determination, did succeed in bending it, slightly . the anchylosis was not total! I am still talking about my knee.

if you can neither stand nor sit with comfort, you take refuge in the horizontal, like a child in its mother’s lap . if in spite of all you come to tire of it in the end, you have only to stand up , or indeed sit up for a few seconds . it would not surprise me if the great classical paralysis were to offer analogous and perhaps even still more unspeakable satisfactions . to be literally incapable of motion at last, that must be something!

if my leg did not get better or got worse , it stoops , as if to get a better look . unless it is the earth that lifts itself up, to be approved, before it sets out , I shall not expound my reasoning . its conclusion made possible the composition of the follow- ing passage . did you have a good night? I said, as soon as my son opened his eyes . finally he told me he did not feel well .

it is a boon it is from time to time, a little real conversation . it was the only way of knowing if he understood . Go to Hole , he said, fifteen miles away. Fifteen miles! I cried. All right, I said, go on. And buy a bicycle , she said. I waited. Silence. A bicycle! I said. You told me second-hand . you told me at last, what will you do? You didn’t tell me . if you can’t 142 SAMUEL BEC

if a pocket was emptied he took them out of his pockets one by one and held them delicately between finger and thumb , turned them this way and that before my eyes and laid them finally on the ground beside me . I was very soon overcome by the absurdity of this verification . perhaps he was hiding the ten shillings up his sleeve or in his mouth . he would have seen I was ill .

a second-hand bicycle costs four pounds ten shillings . it is not true , he said , and why do you think I have given you all that money? I said . we racked our brains together. Second-hand for preference , I said finally , that was what I told you . he had started picking up his things again .

a new bicycle is a good idea to buy a bicycle . here , two distinct operations were involved , the first consist- ing in foreseeing the difficulty (before my son woke ) and the second in overcoming it (at the news that Hole was the nearest locality ) . the first consisted of foreseen the difficulty before my son was woken . there was no problem with people asking him how he came by so 144 SAMUEL BECKETT much money and he so young . in the end he had

we report a case of a young boy who had a com- plexity . he had gone about twenty paces and a good leg boldly folded across the other . when he was at a safe distance he left it too , painfully . the family chat has lasted long enough . it has been a long - waited family chat .

we have often caught faster runners than myself thanks to this way of running . as for the lamp, we did not need a lamp to light his way in the night . the lamp had taken its place in my son’s life , in the refund of his duties and his inno- cent games , then it would be indispensable , to light the way . despite the fact that it was in anticipation of happy days that I had thought of the lamp and cried out to my son to buy a good one , that later on his comings and goings should not be hemmed

to make sure it was a good bell and in good working order, before concluding the trans- action, and to ring it to hear the ring that it made . but we would have time enough to see to all these things . it would be my joy to help my son, when the time came, to fit his bicycle with the best lamps, both front and rear, and the best brakes that money could buy . my son must have had the same idea, he must have stopped on the way to masturbate .

agais , a man who wore a coat much too heavy for the time of the year and was leaning on a stick so massive , and so much thicker at the bottom than at the top , that it seemed more like a club . a little later , having left the shelter for some reason or other, I saw him a few paces off , standing motionless . we looked at each other for some time in silence .

ac- MOLLOY 147 companied this humiliating request with a fiery look . his accent was that of a foreigner or of one who had lost the habit of speech . but suddenly he asked me to give him a piece of bread .

the embers were still warm , but the fire was out , and it was day again . it was the first time that the fire started to set fire to my clothes and I wake a living torch . when the fire kindled , my leg was still warm and my leg remained warm . a few days later , the fires were out . the fire spit was out and a ember was out in the middle of a desert , under the midday sun , to look after him .

heaviness in my leg disappeared even more quickly than when I stood supported only by my muscles and the tree life . for at the same time as I listened to my 148 SAMUEL BECKETT knee , and then submitted it to various tests, I was on my guard against the effects of this habit and tried to discount them . it was not so much Moran as another, in the secret of Moran’s sen- sations exclusively, who said, No change, Moran, no change.

a second day in this vain comings and goings, the vigils and imagin- ings, but not all of it , is a time to retrace my steps , the way I had come, to the shelter , and make sure all was in order , before I sallied forth again . a meal de- MOLLOY 149 voured at five o’clock was left with only two tins of sardines , a handful of biscuits and a few apples . and on myself too

the idea of ageing was not exactly the one which offered itself to me . but what words can describe this sensation at first all darkness and bulk , with a noise like the grinding of stones , then suddenly as soft as water flowing . and then a little globe swaying up slowly from the depths , through the quiet water , smooth at first, and scarcely paler than its escorting ripples, then little by little a face, with holes for the eyes and mouth and other wounds, and nothing to show if it was a man’s face or

a series of menus asymp- 150 SAMUEL BECKETT totically approaching nutritional zero is now content to note feebly that I should soon be dead of inanition if I did not succeed in renewing my provisions . but one incident remains to be noted , before I go on to the third . it was evening. I had lit my tire and was watching it take when I heard myself hailed .

if there is one thing infuriates me it is being taken myself by surprise . a dim man , dim of face and dim of body , because of the dark . here , he said , you unexpected pleasure . and moving aside from the fire which was now burning merrily , so that its light fell full on the intruder , I could see he MOLLOY 151 was precisely the kind of pest he had thought he was , without being sure . there was a thump of his hand on my shoulder 

a dark muffler, seven feet long at least, wound several times round his neck , hung down his back . he ha*d a narrow-brimmed dark blue felt hat on his head , with a fish-hook and an artificial fly stuck in the band , which produced a highly sporting effect . this was nothing compared to the face which I regret to say vaguely resembled my own .

a little later, perhaps a long time later, I found him stretched on the ground, his head in a pulp . a few scratches I did not discover till the following day . I bent over him . as I did so I realised my leg was bending- normally . his leg was no longer resembled me . it was dragged him by the ankles and he was trembl- ing all over .

owls are not eagle-owl species , but they are a cry like a whistle of a locomotive . they were not oagles , it was a crying and sing at night . it was not breaking when I got up and went to the shelter . his legs too were on the stiff side, but there was still some play in the hip joints , fortunately . I dragged him into the copse , with frequent rest on the way, but without letting go his legs , so as not to have to s

a number of keys were found at some distance from me , and they reached by rolling over and over , like a great cylinder . and when looking in this way for my keys I found an ear which I threw into the copse . the elastic had expanded to the edge of the rim and consequently was no longer there . a few of the holes for the elastic were no longer available . so , to my even greater surprise , I found my straw hat which was on my head .

thojiags are a slit , but the other had been spared and the elastic was still in it . it was then I found the ring, first one piece, then the other . then , finding nothing more belonging cither to me or to my son, I shouldered my bags again , jammed the straw-hat hard down on my skull , folded my son’s raincoat over my arm , caught up the umbrella and went . for I soon stopped on the crest of a rise from where I could survey, without fatigue , the

the answer to a given question was found in the sense that the answers did not always follow in the order of the questions . but while looking for the answer , or the answers, to the given question , I found the answer in vain . while searching for the answers , the answer was found to be a question that was already asked . the answers were not always followed , but the answer did not follow . a certain number of questions and tried to answer them . to kill time I asked myself a tin-opener and made fast the elastic again .

hav- ing had such a father , and offers of help and expressions of esteem will pour in upon him from every side . this third day wore away . and about five o’clock my son arrived . he was already between me and the camp , making for the latter when I saw him . I jumped to my feet and began to vociferate , brandishing the um- brella .

he was pushing a bicycle which, when he had joined me, he let fall with a gesture signifying he could bear no more . he did not know what a simple receipt was . but he thought he knew as well as I . for when I said to him , the money I spent on my son’s education and he didn’t know what the receipt was.

the tyre was soon hard . it was as hard as ever. I cursed him . he took a bar of chocolate from his pocket and offered it to me . but instead of eating it, as I longed to , and although I have a horror of waste, I cast it from me after a moment’s hesi- tation , which 1 trust my son did not notice .

phlebotomy is one of the most common diseases in the world . it is a rare disease , but it is not a cure . here we present a solution to this problem , which was solved by a de- pairing effort . my son was tangled up and my stocking was torn and my leg bleeding . he had a sick leg .

the bicycle was all right apparently, the back wheel slightly buckled perhaps. I at once saw the error I had made. It was to have settled down in my seat, with my feet clear of the ground, before we moved off. I reflected. We’ll try again, I said. Don’t try me too far, he said. I let myself slide to one side till the foot of my good leg touched the ground.

the weather was fine and I no longer alone . in this way we came to Ballyba . it was my intention, almost my desire, to tell of all these things, I re- joiced at the thought that the moment would come when I might do so . now the intention is dead, the moment is come and the desire is gone . the skin had healed. I would never have got there alone. It was thanks to my son. What? That I got there. He often complained of his health, his stomach, his teeth.

a flock of black shorn sheep strayed about them, unafraid . Leaving my son on the side of the road I went towards them, across the grass . I often stopped and rested, leaning on my umbrella . the shepherd watched me as I came, without getting up , the dog too , without barking . here and there faint movements of recoil , a tiny foot stamping the ground, betrayed their uneasiness .

the shepherd drew the pipe from his mouth and pointed the stem of his pipe at the ground , several times . the sheep were losing interest in 160 SAMUEL BECKETT me . perhaps they had understood . i heard them straying about again and grazing .

the nis pipe of men is a sigh of joy , but it has not been known how to depart without self-loathing or sadness , or with as little as possible , if a kind of immense resemblance all round me announced it was not I who was departing, but the flock . so in perfect order, the shepherd silent and the dog unheeded, the little flock departed . and so no doubt they would plod on, until they came to the stable or the fold . he counts them as they go by 

the dog stops at the threshold , not knowing whether he may go in or whether it must stay out, all night . it must have seemed a scene like any other, that’s all I know . the next day I realised my mistake . for waking early I found myself alone in the shelter, I who was always the first to wake . not that the fact of his having disappeared with the bicycle during the night or with the first guilty flush of dawn was in itself a matter for grave anxiety .

the yjuman breast is so bizarre that my first feeling was of gratitude for his leaving me this little sum , enough to keep me going until help arrived , and I saw in this a kind of wretched trifles which had once been my delight . and in order to make all this sound more likely I shall add what follows .

we report a case of a young boy who had abandoned me , eating his last pro- visions (which he might easily have taken too ) . he had no illusions that all was about to end , or to begin again , it little mattered how , I had only to wait . for fun, and the better to scatter them to the winds, I dallied with the hopes that spring eternal, childish hopes , as for example that my son, his anger spent, would have pity on me and come back to me . in the evening 

a mighty fit of laughter was seized upon me , with mighty silent laughter and my features composed in their wonted sadness and calm . but my whole body shook, and even my legs , so that I had to lean against a tree , or against an bujW when the fit came on me standing , my umbrella being no longer sufficient to keep me from falling . strange laughter truly , and no doubt misnamed , through indolence perhaps, or ignorance , hardly fitted my situation , which was rather that of the turd waiting

a 164 SAMUEL BECKETT far-off voice was seen from my face . he was dressed as when he had last seen him . his strictures on his Sunday clothes had therefore been unjustified unless it was Sunday again . but had I not always seen him dressed in this way? Would you have a match? he said .

sick, I can’t move, I said. I cried to him that I could not move, that I was sick, that i should have to be carried, that my son had abandoned me , that she could bear no more . he examined me laboriously from head to' foot . I executed a few steps leaning on my umbrella to prove to him I couldn't walk . He opened his notebook again, shone the torch on his page and studied it at length and said, Moran, home, instanter.

we report a case of a man who had a walrus moustache , chestnut in colour . he was not brutal , Gaber ,* I knew him well . it was not much I’m asking you .

it is the first step that counts and the second counts less . it is a start that counts . each day saw me advance a little further . that last sentence is not clear , it docs not say what I hoped it would . I counted at first by tens of steps and stopped when I could go no further and I said , Bravo , that makes so many more than yesterday .

morphine is a rare form of morphogenesis . it is characterized by a variety of factors , such as the nature of nature , the woods and the waters , and the way of edibles . in this article , we describe a case of a man who conceived a dog , a woman who was a child . he conceived the dog a few years ago .

the disease, whatever it was, was dormant! But to return to the flies, I like to think of those that hatch out at the beginning of winter, within doors, and die shortly after . you see them crawling and fluttering in the warm corners, puny, sluggish, torpid, mute . that is you see an odd one now and then. They must die very young, without having been able to lay . You sweep them away, you push them into the dust-pan with the brush, without knowing.

the dead that tried to prevent me from getting home, in obedience to Youdi’s command . but one or two words nevertheless , for my own edification and to prepare my soul to make an end . Certain questions of a theological nature preoccupied me strangely . as for example , certain questions of the antechrist preoccurred me oddly : 1. What value is to be attached to the theory that Eve sprang , not from Adam’s rib, but from a tumour in the fat of his leg (arse? ) 

if we all meet again in heaven one day , I, my mother, my son, his mother, Youdi, Gaber, Molloy , and his mother , Yerk , Murphy , Watt , Camier and others , what had become of my hens , my bees ? I would crave his forgive- ness for what?

the dance was best to be observed among the bees re- turning to the hive, laden more or less with nectar , and it involved a great variety of figures and rhythms . this phenomenon was interpreted as a system of signals by means of which the incoming bee, satisfied or dissatisfied with their plunder , informed the out- going bee in what direction to go . here their watchword seemed to be . there was also the question of the hum, so diverse in tone in the vicinity of a hum peculiar to it 

the purpose of the hum ' is not to emphasise the dance, but on the contrary to vary it . the same figure exactly differs in meaning according to hum that goes with it.and there was to be considered not only the figure and the self- same hum, but also the height at which the figure was executed . for the bees did not dance at any level, haphazard, but there were three or four levels, always the same, at which tftey danced . if I were to tell you what these levels were, and what the relations

despite its deep lesions and the wounds with which it was covered , this is the first time that I have spoken of a voice giving me orders , or rather advice . it was on the way home . physically speaking it seemed to me I was now becoming rapidly unrecognisable . and when I passed my hands over my face , in a characteristic and now more than ever pardonable gesture , the face my hands felt was not my face any more , and the hands my face felt were my hands no longer . the gist of the sensation was the

a flimsiest analogy is that my boots became rigid, from lack of proper care . the air coursed through them freely , preserving perhaps my feet from freezing . but the seat of my breeches , before it too decomposed, sawed my crack from Dan to Beersheba . I had four ways of wearing my shirt : front to front right side out, back to front inside out and back to rear inside out . meanwhile , my knickerbockers had rotted, from constant contact with my incontine

172 SAMUEL BECKETT was faced with the following dilemma : was I to go on leaning on my umbrella and get drenched or was i to stop and take shelter under my open umbrella? I was so accus- tomed, on the one hand to the perfect watertightness of my expen- sive umbrella, and on the other hand to being unable to walk without its support , that the dilemma remained entire, for me .

if it had suddenly begun to rain manna I would have waited, stock-still, under my umbrella, for it to be over, before taking advantage of it . when my arm was weary of holding up the umbrella , then I gave it to the other hand . and when it was clear that the rain would not stop all day , or all night, then i did the sensible thing and built myself a proper shelter . but this was not the real reason why I did not like proper shelters any more .

the thought of taking to the road, to try and get a lift, never crossed my mind.the thought of turning for help to the villages, to the peasants, would have displeased me, if it had occurred to me. I reached home with my fifteen shillings intact. No, I spent two. This is how. I had to suffer other molestations than this, other offences, but I shall not record them. Let us be content with paradigms. I may have to suffer others in the future.

we report a case of a cattle breeder who lost his infant boy , Ninette , and kept his mamma . she was a pity , no matter if he was known . he had never been able to invent a satisfactory reply . it is a vow , he said , when he chose .

this incident gives but a feeble idea of my ability, even at this late period . but I had gone a little too far, for the vicious look came back into his eye . May I ask you a favour, I said, God will reward you . Humbly to ask a favor of people who are on the point of knocking your brains out sometimes produces good results . to grant such a small favour to a pilgrim on the rocks was frankly a temptation difficult to resist .

it is a great thing to own a plot in perpetuity , a very great thing indeed . if only that were the only perpetuity. I came to the wicket. It was locked. Very properly. But I could not open it. The key went into the hole, but would not turn. Long disuse? A new lock? I burst it open. I drew back to the other side of the lane and hurled myself at it. I had come home, as Youdi had com- manded me.

this time a year ago I was setting out. I am clearing out.a letter from Youdi. My son was well. He would be. Let us hear no more about him.it is summer again.this time is a time of summer again . I thought I was done with people and talk . one day 1 received a visit from Father Ambrose . he said when he saw me. I think he really liked me .

it is no worse either. 1 have crutches now. i shall go faster, all will go faster. They will be happy days. I shall learn. All there was to sell I have sold. But I had heavy debts. I have been a man long enough, I shall not .put up with it any more, I will not try any more. I am going to blow it out and go into the garden. I think of the long May days, June days, when I lived in the garden . one day I talked to Hanna. She gave me news of Zulu, of the

the rejoicings of the transfiguration will take place in my absence , this year . it is the kind of bait that I do not rise to any more, my need for prettiness is gone . in what does it differ from those that have abused me ever since I was born? I have that feeling , I have had it now for some days , but it is just as well to let myself die to-day, if I wished, merely by making little effort .

we report a case of a man who was repaid for his life . he was always content , knowing that he would be refunded . there was no ugliness or beauty or fever in them any more , they will be almost lifeless , like the teller . it does not matter . I look forward to their giving me great satisfaction , some satisfaction .

the fires and ice of hell and in the execrable generations to come to come an honoured name . this time I know where I am going, it is no longer the ancient night, the recent night . now it is a game, and it is going to play . T never knew how to play, till now. I longed to, but I knew it was impossible. And yet yet I often tried. I turned on all the lights, I took a good look all round, I began to play with what 1 saw.all went well at first, they all came to me,

to have been able to conceive suchia plan is encouraging. I must have thought about my time-table during the night. I think I shall be able . to tell myself four stories, each one on a different theme. Perhaps 1 shall put the man and ‘the woman in the same story, there is so little difference between a man and a woman, between mine I mean. Perhaps I shall not have time to finish. There I am back at my old aporctics. I don’t know. It docs not matter if 1 do not finish.

all my life long I have dreamt of the moment when, edified at last, in so far as one can be before all is lost, I might draw the line and make the tot . this moment seems now at hand. I shall not lose my head on that account . if after all that I am still alive I shall take the necessary steps to ensure my not having made a mistake .

this is a mistake , but it is still a weakness . it is also an ardour to the inventory , and it will be a pendant to the stock . aesthetics are therefore on my side , at least a certain kind of aesthetics . for I shall have to become earnest again to be able to speak of my possessions , there it is then divided into five , the time that remains . I must say there is something very attractive about such a prospect . there is an occasional interlude . here , I am on

the powers have changed in their attitude towards me . it is better to adopt the simplest explanation , even if it is not simple . perhaps I came in for the room on ihe death of whoever was in it before me. Perhaps I enquire no further in any case . I have listened at different hours of the day and night and never heard anything suspicious or unusual , but always the peaceful sounds of men at large, getting up, lying down , preparing food, coming and going, weeping and laughing, or nothing at all, no sounds at all . 

a forest is a coma . it is an ordinary room , but this one seems quite ordinary to me . if I did not feel myself dying, L could well believe myself dead , expiating my sins , or in one of heaven’s mansions . the sensation of being beyond the grave was stronger with me six months ago .

the moon on the other hand has grown familiar , I am well familiar now with her changes of aspect and aspect . she is well known now with the changes of aspects and aspect of the moon . the moon is a new city , and the moon has become familiar . if it is possible to get as far as London , it can be difficult to find my way about among them .

this is how it is done for me every day, at the same time probably . when I want to eat I hook the table with my stick and draw it to me . it is soup. They must know I am toothless. I eat it one time out of two, out of three, on an average . if my chamber-pot is full I put it on the table beside the dish . they have thought of everything .

it is conceivable that she does what she does out of sheer charity or moved with regard to me by a less general feel- ing of compassion or affection . it is more convenient to suppose that when she comes in for the room I came in for her too . she is dead, having pre- deceased- me, perhaps now it is another’s hand that lays and clears my little table .

i have been here for some very considerable time . for there is nothing the various seasons can do to me, within the shelter of these walls , that I do not know . it is not to be learnt in one year or two . a few words about myself perhaps . my body is what is called, unadvisedly perhaps, impotent . there is virtually nothing it can do . sometimes I miss not being able to crawl around any more . but I find it hard to guide them .

a precocious boy , he was not good at his lessons , neither could he see the use of them . he attended his classes with his mind elsewhere , or blank . his classes were taught . all calculation seemed to him idle in which the nature of the unit was not specified . the figures than marshalling in his mind thronged it with colours and with forms .

he was struck each time by the vagueness of these palavers and not surprised that they never led to anything . he used to say to his wife, I really must find work for the evenings and the Saturday after- noon . but if you do any more work you’ll fall ill . and Mr. Saposcat had to allow that he would indeed be ill-advised to forego his Sunday rest . perhaps secretarial work of some kind, he said .

we are cramped as it is, said Mrs. Saposcat . it was an understood thing that they would be more and more so with every passing year until the day came when, the departure of the first-born compensating the arrival of the new-born, a kind of equilibrium would be attained . then little by little the house would empty , and at last they were all alone , with their memories . they woald take a cottage in the country where, having no further need of manure, they could afford to buy it in cartloads .

it is better for him to prepare his examinations, said his wife . sometimes he stated wearily his regret that his son should not be more eager to make himself useful about the place . he had no conversation properly speaking . they made use of tlie spoken word in much the same way as the guard of a train makes use of his flags , or of his lantern . their son once signalled, they wondered sadly if it was not the mark of superior minds to fail miserably at the written paper and cover themselves with ridicule at the viva voce

a mud-bath in which a world is unsullied by my presence is a way to reason . here , we report a case of a man who was confined to a school in a classroom . he had a few friends . the dolt is seldom solitary .

a little darkness in itself, at the time is nothing . I know what darkness is , it accumulates, thickens, then suddenly bursts and drowns everything . this is what I have decided . at the age of fourteen he was a plump rosy boy . his wrists and ankles were thick , which made his mother say that one day he would be even bigger than his father .

it was thanks to Sapo’s skull that he was enabled to hazard this opinion and, in deflance of the facts and against his better judgment , to revert to it from time to time . but he could not endure the look in Sapo's eyes and went out of his way not to meet it . he did not know how to look at all these things , the looks he rained upon them taught him nothing about them .

a light has just gone on in one of the two windows of the house across the way . by this I mean those I can see always, without raising my head from the pillow . Until tomorrow I shall not see her again , her shadow perhaps from time to time . the man has not yet ome home. Home. I have demanded certain movements of my legs and even feet. I know them well and could feel the effort they made to obey .

a gull’s phlegm, his silent ways, were not of a nature to please . in the midst of tumult , at school and at home, he remained motionless in his place , often standing , and gazed straight before him with eyes as pale and unwavering as he could brood on thus, hour after hour . the signs were rather those of besottedness pure and simple . he dropped his jaw and breathed through his mouth .

we arc getting on, getting on . we told me he would be a good athlete , said Mr. Saposcat , and now he is not on any team . the long walks in the country do him good . a little less well endowed with strength and courage he too would have abandoned and despaired of ever knowing what manner of being he was . from these reveries he emerged tired and pale , which con- firmed his father 's impression that his father was the victim of lascivious speculations .

we are getting on. Nothing is less like me than this patient, reasonable child, strugglig all alone for years to shed a little light upon himself , avid of the least gleam , a stranger to the joys of darkness . here truly is the air I needed a lively tenuous air, far from the nourishing murk that is killing me . I want to be there a 194 SAMUEL BECKETT little before the plunge, close for the last time the old hatch on top of me, say goodbye to the holds where I have lived, go

in my young days and which prevented fr le from living and on the threshold of being no more I succeed in being another . in the morning he took private lessons. You’ll have us in the poorhousc , said Mrs. Saposcat . it was the season when the labours of the peasants reach their paroxysm and the long bright days are too short for all there is to do . often they took advantage of the moon to make a last journey between the fields , perhaps far away , and the bam or threshing floor , or to

as I please. Live and invent. It is not the word. Neither is live. No matter. I have tried. While within me the wild beast of earnestness padded up aqd down, roaring, ravening, rending . despite that , it isn’t the word . I must have tried . while within me a syphilitic wild beast was padded down , motionless, often standing, spellbound, groaning , and threw myself on the playthings, if there were any,

despite the inadequacy of the exchanges between rural and urban areas , the excellent youth had not escaped the excellent young youth . he had mustered , on this subject, the following considerations , some per- haps close to, others no doubt far from, the truth . in his country the problem — no, I can’t do it . assembled in the farm- yard they watched him depart, on stumbling, wavering feet , as though they were in the stinging air towards an inaccessible boon 

the image of these objects, with which I have lulled myself till now, though accurate in the main, was not completely so . it seems to offer me the possibility of something suspiciously like a true statement at last . I presume it is an obsession . but might they not have MALONE DIES 197 rolled behind a piece of furniture? That would surprise me .

in this room, to the best of my knowledge, there is only one piece of furniture capable of intervening between me and njy posses- sions, I refer to the cupboard . it may be objected that my button-boot , for it was a kind of button -boot, is in the cupboard, opening the doors, the drawers, for the first time perhaps, and rooting everywhere . I have gone through it , my stick has gone through the cupboard and opens the doors , drawers and rooted everywhere , but it seems part of them

it is the demon lurking in the folds of the prostate , like the gonococcus . my situation is truly delicate . what fine things, what momentous things, I am going to miss through fear , fear of falling back into the old error . the forms are many in which the unchanging seeks relief from its formlessness . I venture to hope there will be no more, of that depth .

a tumult is a night as Kaspar David Friedrich loved, tempestuous and bright . it is so far away that it is too far away . a tiny tot I gaped, first at the novelties, then at the antiquities . between it and me the pane , misted and smeared with the filth of years . my breath fills the room with its din , though my chest moves no more than a sleeping child’s . I open my eyes and gaze un- blinkingly and long at the night

the beasts are at pasture, the sun warms the rocks and makes them glitter . yes, I leave my happiness and go back to the race of men too, they come and go , often with burdens , but I don’t think so , I have not judged them at all . for the wise thing now would be to let go, at this instant of happiness . here we go none the less , to begin to understand how such creatures are possible .

the father was known as Big Lambert, and big he was indeed. He had parried his young cousin and was still with her . this was his third or fourth marriage . he had other children here and there , grown men and women imbedded deep in life , hoping for nothing more, from themselves or from others . they helped him, each one according to his means or the humour of 200 SAMUEL BECKETT the moment , out of gratitude towards him but for whom they had never seen the light of day, or saying, with indulgence .

pigs have none but this , to the great affliction of his family , but they did not dare protest , for they feared him . he was feared and in a position to do as he pleased . his young wife had abandoned all hope of bringing him to heel , by means of her cunt , that trump card of young wives . for she knew what he would do to her if she did not open it to him , and even insisted on her .

pigs are alike , when you get to know their little ways, struggle, squeal, bleed, , struggle and faint away, in more or less the same way exactly, a way that is all their own and could never be imitated by a lamb, for example, or a kid . but once March was out Big Lambert recovered his calm and became his silent self again . the farm was in a hollow, flooded in winter and in summer burnt to a cinder .

in the old days I used to count, up to three hundred, four hundred, and with other things too, the showers, the bells and the chatter of the sparrows at dawn, or with nothing, for no reason, for the sake of counting , and then I divided, by sixty . in the filthy kitchen , with its earth floor , Sapo had his place , by the window . for Lambert persisted in dreading for his pigs, though every passing year proved him wrong, the thinning effects of exercise , daylight and fresh air 

u iay and several times a day she gave way to them, within doors and without . she dropped every- thing , whether she was observed or not, whether what she was doing was urgent or could wait , no , but she dropped everything . the ejaculations were not intended for any living person .

we report a case of a young woman living as likely as not and dead to what was going on about her . she fell silent and stood stockstill a moment, before resuming whatever it was she had abandoned or setting about some new task . the room was dark in spite of the door and window open on the great outer light . through these narrow openings, far apart, the light poured, lit up a little space, then died, undiffused . it had no steadfastness, no assurance of lasting as long as day lasted . but it entered at every

the grey hen came alone, or one of the liens if you prefer , for that is a thing that will never be known , though it might . for all that was necessary , in order that it might be known whether there was only one hen or a single hen . if he rose to go she did not fly into a flutter , she was followed by a second, a third and 204 SAMUEL BECKETT even a fourth , bearing no likeness to her, and little to one another in the matter of plu

we report a case of a grey hen in a kitchen in which he waited to be on his feet again , and in motion . he had not understood, in time to profit by it, the importance that those hours were one day to assume , for him, those long hours in that old kitchen where, neither quite indoors nor quite out of doors, she waited again . the day when it was urgent for Sapo to have this point cleared up, and his mind set at rest, it was too late . for it was quite possible there was only one grey , even

a long line of tattered MALONE DIES 205 washing , swaying and drying in the sun . he went by the little path he had come by , along the edge of the meadow in the shadow of the great trees that bordered the stream , its bed a chaos of gnarled roots, boulders and baked mud . the Lamberts saw him, from far off or from near by, or some of them from faroff and the others from near to , suddenly emerge from behind the washing and set off down the path 

it was therefore difficult for Sapo to glide 206 SAMUEL BECKETT away unseen, even in the deep shadow of the trees that bordered the stream , even supposing him to have been capable of gliding , for his movements were rather those of one floundering in a quag . if at first they were not in agreement about what they had seen, they talked it over doggedly until they were, in agreement I mean, or until they resigned them- selves to never being so .

the sound of the stone-cutters was not noble , but it was the barking of the dogs , at night , in the clusters of hovels up in the hills , where the stones lived , like genera- tions of stone - cutters before them . it came down to me where I MALONE DIES 207 lay , and he was still young . he had a long - term relationship with the earth , whose tefld him to pore upon his dream .

the noises of the world, so diverse in themselves and which I used to be so clever at distinguishing from one another, had been dinning at me for so long, always the same old noises , as gradually to have merged into a single noise , so that all I heard was one vast continuous buzzing . the volume of sound perceived remained no doubt the same, I had simply lost the faculty of decomposing it .

this is evening, even ?ight, one of the darkest I can remember, I have a short memory . it is in order to know where I have got to, where he has got to . a minimum of memory is indispensable if one is to live really . this is the only way to keep an eye on him , but as far as I myself am concerned the same necessity does not arise , or does it? I write about myself with the same pencil and in the same exercise-book as about him.

it has been singing the same song for a long time now . it belongs already to the long past , it has uttered for the last time the triumphal cry on which [t ends ] ends .

if it can, could not this song have simply been to the honour and glory of him who was the first to rise from the dead . the final bawl lends colour to this view . I fear I must have fallen asleep again . in vain I grope, I can- not find my exercise-book . but I still have the pencil in my hand. I shall have to wait for day to break . God knows what I «m going to do till then .

cxcrcise-book is a thick exercise-book . it is ruled in squares . the first pages are covered with ciphers and other symbols and diagrams , with here and there a brief phrase . they seem to stop suddenly prematurely 210 SAMUEL BECKETT at all events . if tomorrow I needed an old love-letter I would adopt the same method .

the summer holidays were drawing to a close . the decisive moment was at hand when the hopes reposed in Sapo were to be fulfilled or dashed to the ground . when this first ordeal was surmounted there was no sign of any , inside me or outside me . it seemed to me, for a second, that I was going to have a visit .

the c lirst which was to give them, or deny them the right to say, He is doing his medicine, or. He is reading for the bar . for they felt that a more or less normal if unintelligent youth, once admitted to the study of these pro- fessions, was almost sure to be certified, sooner or later, apt to MALONE DIES 211 exercise them . one day Mr. Saposcat sold himself a fountain-pen, at a dis- count.

it is a medium nib , and it will certainly suit him . this conversation was renewed the next day . Mr. Saposcat said . Might it not be better if we just lent him the pen and told him he could keep it for his own, if he passed? Then we must do so at once, said Mrs. saposcat , otherwise there is no point in it .

the mule had died of old age . he had bought it two years before , on its way to the slaughter-house . after the transaction he was able to sell it , and he could not complain . however , he remained in good spirits .

mule predicted that it would drop down dead at the first ploughing . but Lambert was a con- noisseur of mules . as Lambert unfolded his story the slaughter- MALONE DIES 213 house loomed larger and larger . thus the site of the transaction shifted gradually from the road that led to the slaughterhouse to the gates of a slaughter-house and thence to the yard itself . the look in his eye, he said, was like a jrayer to me to take him .

a loafer is a mule , or a horse , bought at the Knacker’s yard . he was able to plough and harrow the place where it lay , in which it had plodded its life away , would see it no more , toiling before the plough or the dray . for he knew how the dead and buried tend , contrary to what one might expect, to rise to the surface . she had been to see a neighbour .

a great number of tasks arcs of this kind, without a doubt , and the work of two or three minutes annihilated . here , we report a case of a snrall heap of lentils on a table , containing two heaps on the table and one big heap getting bigger .

only way to end them is to abandon them . she could have gone on sorting her lentils all night and never achieved her purpose , which was to free them from all admixture . but in tH end she would have stopped , saying, I have done all she can do . the moment comes when one desists because it is the wisest thing to do, discouraged, but not to the extent of undoing all that has been done . what if her MALONE DIES 215 purpose, in sorting the lentils , were not to rid

pigeons too are less impression- able and sometimes even struggle, before choking to death . a long time passed before she came . Mrs. Lambert was breathing hard. Little devil! she cried. But Sapo was already far away, trailing his hand in the high waving meadow grasses . soon afterwards Lambert, then his son, attracted by the savoury smell, entered the kitchen . the woman, the mother, went to the door and called . she had seen the moon .

we report a case of a rabbit rabbit in a woman with a solitary rabbit . he sat watch- ing her , and she was crouched before the range , in an attitude of dejection . she went out with his daughter Lambert , who had no desire to sleep with anybody , saw it coming with indiffer- ence . but it is hard to look steadily for any length of time at a fellow-creature , even when you are resolved to .

we report a case of a woman with a sigh of unending weariness , afid told her she could never understand , because it was not like those she knew , not like the summer dawn she would come again , to her waiting in the kitchen , sitting up straight on the chair , or bowed down over the table , with little sleep , little rest , but more than in her bed . she stood up a moment irresolutely and blew down the chimney , as she always did before blowing it out , for

we all know that little flame and its flickerings in the wild shadows, as people do when someone even insignificant dies , they summoned up such memories as he had left them , helping one anolner and trying to agree . one day she took counsel of a woman whose family would soon be united , waiting for her to serve them and to feel about her , ready for use, the life- long pots and pans . she opened the door and looked out . it was a scene that had sometimes solaced her .

the merino is a very fine cage , with every convenience, perches, swings, trays, troughs, stairs and cuttle-bones . it was even overcrowded , personally I would have felt cramped . the notion of a wandering herd was better adapted to him than to me .

r.«e now is a cult of access . it is based on the knowledge of my impotence that emboldens me to that thought . if I had the use of my body I would throw it out of the window . the doors banging, the steps on the stairs , the noises in the street, have not enlightened me , on this subject .

so I say. Perhaps after all I am in a kind of vault and this space which I take to be the street in reality no more than a wide trench or ditch with other vaults opening upon it . but the noises that rise up from below, the steps that come climbing towards me? Perhaps there arc other basements even deeper than mine, why not? I have no proof that they do . to conclude from this that I am a prey to hallucinations pure and simple is nowever a step I hesitate to take .

the light that reigns in this den and of which the least that can be said, really the least, is that it is bizarre . in reality all that is perhaps nothing but my worms . it summons in support of this view various considerations having to do for example with the little heap of my possessions , my system of nutrition and elimin- ation, the couple across the way, the changing sky , and so on . here , we describe a kind of night and day , admittedly , often it is even pitch dark , but in rather a different way from

the dawn is a very short time to be the dusk , and the sun , instead of rising higher and higher in the sky as I confidently expected, calmly set, and night, the passing of which I had just celebrated after my fashion . now the reverse , as you might say, I mean day closing in the twilight of dawn , I must confess to never having exper- MALONB DIES 221 ienced, and that goes to my heart , i mean that I can not bring myself to declare that that I experienced that too .

black is black the whole world over , but how is it the moon where Cain toils bowed beneath his burden never sheds its light on my face ? in a word there seems to be the light of the outer world, of those who know the sun and moon emerge at such an hour and at such another plunge again below the surface , and who rely on this , ano who know that clouds are always to be expected but sooner or later always jlass away, and mine too has its alternations .

it is not so much an affair of eyelids , but as it were the soul that must be veiled , that soul denied in vein , vigilant, anxious, turning in its cage as in a lantern , in the night . the noises too, cries , steps, doors, murmurs, cease for whole days , their days . then that silence of which, knowing what I know, I shall merely say that there is nothing, how shall I merely speak , nothing negative about it.

mv stick lacks a little prehensile proboscis like the nocturnal tapir’s . I should really lose my pencil more often, it might do me good , I might be more cheerful . it is a misfortune , the pencil must have slipped from my fingers , for I have only just succeeded in recovering it after forty- eight hours of intermittent efforts . a few days of which nothing will ever be known , it is too late now , or still too soon, I forget which, except that they have MAL

phosphate is a phosphatase . it is the most common form of phosphatidation , but it is not phosphatic . this is the case of a pen made in France , a long cylinder hardly broached , in the bed with me somewhere I think . the pen is whitening , and the sand kept trickling away and the sound it gave forth was at once sharp and dull , wrong in fact . so it was not without some trepidation that I inspected the other great planes , above and

the blKxl recedes in the long run , but it is still a gloom . it is the same grey as heretofore , literally sparkling at times , then growing murky and dim, thickening is perhaps the word , until all things are blotted out except the window which seems in a manner of speaking to be my umbilicus , so that I say to myself . when it too goes out I shall know more or less where I am . if there were no flowers on the ceiling there was no doubt something else

this time, so fertile in incidents and mishaps, in my head I suppose all was streaming and emptying away as through a sluice, to my great joy, until finally nothing remained, either of Malone or of the other . and what is more I was able to follow without difficulty the various phases of this deliverance and felt no surprise at its irregular course, now rapid, now slow, so crystal clear was my understand- ing of the reasons why this could not be, otherwise . here again naturally 1 MALONE DIES 225 was utterly deceived

squirms that get me no- where are well-meaning squirks that give me a no-where . they are well - thought , but they are perhaps better left unsaid . to speak for example of the times when I go liquid and become like mud, what good would that do? Or of the others when I would be lost in the eye of a needle, I am so hard and contracted? I was speaking then was I not of my little pastimes and I think about to say that I ought to content myself with them instead of launching forth on

be born, that’s 226 SAMUEL BECKETT the brainwave now, that is to say live long enough to get acquainted with free carbonic gas, then say thanks for the nice time and go.that has always been my dream at bottom, all the things that have always been her dream at top, so many strings and never a shaft. I’ve rotted her, she’ll drop me with the help of gangrene, perhaps papa is at the party too . all the stories I have told myself, clinging tp the putrid mucus,

a -poor thing that heve made, or how like myself, I shall cat it . it is a stratum , strata , with- out debris or vestiges . but before I am done I shall find traces of what was . how did I know it was he? The eyes perhaps. No, I don’t know how I knew. I’ll take back nothing. Perhaps it is not he . no matter , he is mine now, living flesh and needless to say male , living with that evening life which is like a

a great man for apples, to be had almost for the whinginging if you knew your way about, and a little sunshine and shelter for those who direly needed them . he has had them a long time already , to judge by their decay , but no matter, *they are the last . most remarkable of all is his greatcoat , in the sense that it covers him completel; and screens him from view . for it is so well buttoned, from top to bottom, by 'means of fifteen buttons at the very least, set at intervals

this coat is of a fine plain green colour , what you might call cab green , for there used to be cabs and carriages rattling through the town with panels of an handsome bottle green . the coat is a rag arc of the piece with its other parts , but the collar has remained intact , being of velvet or perhaps shag . for the sleeves of the coat , the collar is bare and frayed into long waving strands that flutter in the wind . this coat, when new, was of an important consideration 

this coat is a greatcoat and perhaps I should rather call it an overcoat or even cover-me-down, for that is indeed the impression it gives, that it covers the whole body all over, with the exception obviously of the head which emerges, lofty and impassive, clear of its embrace . but one never knows, does one? Now with regard to the buttons of this coat, they are not so much genuine buttons as little wooden cylinders two or three inches long , with a hole in the middle for the thread, for one hole is ample , though two and even four are

if we now consider this coat and this hat, no longer separately, but in relation to each other, we are very soon agreeably surprised to see how well they are assorted . it would not surprise me to learn that these men had been bought, one at the hatter’s, the other at the tailor’s , perhaps the same day and by the same toff , for such men exist , I mean fine handsome men six foot tall and over and all in keeping but the head, small from over-breeding .

despite the fact that this for the moment is delicate ground , it is not much better but there is no time to lose , for Macmann might be stark staring naked under this surtout for all anyone would be any the wiser . the trouble is he does not stir . since morning he has been here and now it is evening . his back is turned to the river , but perhaps it appears to him in the dreadful cries of the gulls that evening assembles , in paroxysms of hunger , round the outflow of the sewer

the shambles of the horse are characterized by a series of etiologies , including ecstasy , ephemera , and adolescence . the euphoria of the horses is a rare occurrence , especially in the october of april , when it is re- covered . here we report a case of the drowsiness , the little memorandum book with its little special pencil, the yawned

the cabman is seated facing the way he is going or, what is perhaps even more restful, with his back to it , then it rears its head , stiffens its houghs and looks almost content . the passenger , having named the place he wants to go and knowing himself as helpless to act on the course of events as the dark box that encloses him , abandons t himself to the pleasant feeling of being freed from all responsibility , or ponders on what lies behind him .

we report a case of per- haps an evening yi autumn , an equinoctial gale howls along the quays bordered by high red houses , many of which are warehouses . but for Macmann , thank God , he is still there , for this evening it is a true spring evening and these leaves whirling in the air , whence it is impossible to say, for here there are no trees , are per--haps no longer the first of the year , barely green, but old leaves

it is no doubt all the same to Macmann whether it is spring or autumn, unless he prefers summer to winter or inversely, which is improbable . but it must not be thought he will never move again, out of this place and attitude, for he has still the whole of his old age before him , and then that kind of epilogue when it is not very clear what is happen- ing and which does not seem to add very much to what has already been acquired or to shed any great light on its usefulness, as hay is left out to dry before being

it is bad policy, for on the fifth day rise you must, and rise in fact you do, but with how much greater pains than if you had made up your mind to it the day before, or better still two days before, and why add to your pains , it’s bad policy , assuming you do add to them , and nothing is less certain . sometimes you cannot, get to your feet I mean, and have to drag yourself to the nearest plot of vegetables , using the tufts of grass and asperities of the earth to drag your- self forward, or to

iiiaps he has cogie to that stage of his instant when to live is to wander the last of the living in the depths of an instant without bounds, where the light never changes and the wrecks look all alike . but at long intervals they close , with 234 SAMUEL BECKETT the gentle suddenness of flesh that tightens , often without anger , and closes on itself . perhaps it is then then he sees the heaven of the old dream and the spasms of the waves from shore to shore all stirring to their

this is the month of May , which is a month that is characterized by charnels . it is not a word and on with the losing game , it’s good for the health . here , we report a case of my feet in the middle of the chrysanthemums , in which my feet are leagues away from me .

a mere local phenomenon is something I would not have noticed, having been nothing but a series or rather a succession of local phenomena all my life, without any result . but my fingers too write in other latitudes and the air that breathes through my pages and turns them without my knowing , when I doze off , so that the subject falls far from the verb and the object lands somewhere in the void is not the air of this second-last abode , and a mercy it is . now my sex, and in particular the nozzle , from which when

if I were to stand up again, from which God preserve me, I fancy I would fill a con- siderable part of the universe, oh not more than lying down, but more noticeably . for it is a thing I have often noticed, the best way to pass unnoticed is to lie down flat and not move . so there I am, who always thought I would shrivel and shrive, more and more, until in the end I could be almost buried in a casket, swelling . no matter what matters is that in spite of my 2

this is the first case of a rafher 's death , and it has been reported that he was a victim of his death . he died in april 2012 , but he did not know me , or for fear of hurting his fingers . this is a rare case of the death of an aristocrat , who died a few years ago .

a sudden wish to see, as sometimes in the old days, something, anything, no matter what, something I could not have imagined . it seems to me that he had a name . for this may well be my last journey down the long familiar galleries , with my little suns and moons that I hang aloft and . my pockets full of pebbles stand for men and their seasons , my last, if I’m lucky . then back here , to me, whatever that means, and no more leaving me, no more asking me for what I haven

a window is whatever I want it to be, up to a point, that’s right, don’t compromise yourself . after all this window is what I have to do, such extraordinary things , fid often coloured . it strikes me to begin with is how much rounder it is than it was , so that it looks like a 238 SAMUEL BECKETT bull’s-eye , or a porthole . first I sec the night , which surprises me, to my surprise , I suppose because there is something on the other side

we have here two distinct and separate bodies , each enclosed within its own frontiers , nd having no need of each other to come and go and sustain the flame of life , for each is well able to do so independently of the other . perhaps they are cold , that they rub against each other so, for friction . if one may say so , and in vain they clasp with the energy of despair , it is clear they are twain . for they cleave so fast together that they seem a single body , so that it is 

it is a big complicated shape made up of more than one . but the night must be warm , for of a sudden the curtain lifts on a flare of tender colour , pale blush and white of flesh , then pink that must come from a garment and gold too that I haven’t time to understand . it is not oold they are, standing so lighty clad by the open window . they must be loving each other , that must be how it is done .

this is the 240 SAMUEL BECKETT kind of story he has been telling himself all his life , saying . it was sometime in the after- noon , impossible to say more , for hours and hours past it had been the same leaden light , so it was very probably the afternoon , very . TKe still air , though not cold as in winter, seemed without promise or memory of warmth . this can possibly last much longer .

the idea of punishment came to his mind, addicted it is true to that chimera and probably impressed by the posture of the body and the fingers clenched as though in torment . without knowing exactly what his sin was he felt full well that living was not a sufficient atonement for it or that this atonment was in itself a sin , calling for more atonements , and so on , as if there could be anything but life , for the living . no doubt he would have wondered if it was really necessary to be guilty in order to be

despite the teeming rain and the promise it contained of stars to enable him to make definite headway towards the one, or the other, or to hold fast where he was, in the plain , as he might be pleased to decide . for he did not know quite where the rain was , except that he had been in a plain and the mountains not far, nor the sea nor the town , and that all he needed was a dust of light and a few fixed stars a little later , to light his way and enable them to get his

he was astonished at not having under- stood, from the moment the first timid drops began to fall, that it was going to rain violently and long and that he must not stop and lie down , but on the contrary press forward , as fast as his legs could carry him . but between him and those grave and sober men, first bearded, then moustached, there was this difference , that his semen had never done any harm to anyone . the better late than never thanks to which true men can acknowledge the error of their ways and hasten on to the next

we report a case of a man who had re- mained his head in a wild and practically illimitable part of the country . he tried to look at the dark streaming mass which was all that remained*of sky and air , but the rain hurt his eyes and shut them . his mouth opened and lay for a long time thus , his mouth open and his hands also and as far apart as possible from each other . for it is a curidtis thing , for the first time since his walks bare- headed in the smiling haunts of

the rain glued it to the ground and churned it up with the earth and grass into a kind of muddy pulp . the cause of his pain was almost certainly the rain, recumbency in itself not being particularly unpleasant , as if there Existed a relation between that which suffers and that which causes to suffer . for the rain could cease without his ceasing to suffer, just as he could cease to suffer without the rain’s ceases on that account .

a good half of his existence must have been spent in a motionlessness akin to that of stone , not to mention that he was not mistaken in holding it responsible for his sufferings and if in reality his discomfort was not the effect of quite a different cause or set of causes . for people are never content to suffer, but they must have heat and cold, rain and its contrary which is fine weather , and with that love, friendship, black skin and sexual and peptic deficiency for example, in short the furies and frenzies happily too numerous to be

it must be presumed that he received from his numerous forbears , through the agency of his papa and his mama, a cast-iron vegetative system, to have itached the age he has just reached and which is nothing or very little compared to the age they will reach , as I know to my cost, without any serious mishap, I mean one of a nature to carry, him off on the spot . for no one ever came to his help, to help him avoid the thorns and snares that attend the steps of innocence , and

satis- faction is a scavenger who has been a pioneer in street- cleaning . despite such humble occupations as street cleaning to which with hopefulness he had sometimes turned , on the off chance of his being a born savenger , he did not succeed any better . even though he was compelled to admit that the place swept by him looked dirtier at his departure than on his arrival , as if a demon had driven him to collect all the dirt and filth which chance had withdrawn from the sight of the

it was truly as if he were not master of his movements and did not know what he was doing, while it was doing it , nor what it had done, once he had done it . for someone had to say to him , look at what you have done , sticking his nose in it so to speak , otherwise he did not realize , but thought he has done as any man of good will would have done in his place and with very much the same results , in spite of his lack of experience . he really exhibited a certain dexterity,

wishing costs nothing sooner or later a general paralysis at a pinch the arms if that is conceivable , in a place impermeable as far as possible to wind, rain, sound, cold, great heat (as in the seventh century) and daylight , with one or two eiderdowns just in case and a charitable soul say once a week bearing eating- apples and sardines in oil for the purpose of postponing as long as possible the fatal hour , it would be wonderful to wish Macmann , since he was incapable of picking

in theory his hat should have followed him, seeing it was tied to his coat , and the string twisted itself about his neck , but MALONE DIES 247 not at all , for theory is one thing and reality another . but perhaps one day a high wind would come and send it , dry and light again, bowling and bounding over the plain until it came to the town , or the ocean, but not necessarily . now it was not the first time that Macmann rolled upon the ground and which thanks to the hat continued to contrast with the surrounding space ,

the exercise-book is mine , and the little table, the dish, the pots, the cupboard, the blankets . the two pencils then , the exercisebook and then the stick , which I did not have either when I came here , but which I consider mine, I must have des- cribed long ago . it is with me in the bed, under blankets, there was a time I used to rub myself against it , saying . if it sticks out under the pillow and finishes far and wide , it is a little woman .

a needle stuck into two corks to prevent it from sticking into me , for if file point pricks less than the eye, no, that’s wrong . it is a pretty little object , like a — no, it is like nothing . the bowl of my pipe was thrown away because it could no longer serve , the stem having broken off just short of the bowl . this pipe could have been repaired , but he must have said . perhaps I thought it pretty or felt for it that foul feeling of pity that made me wish to have

we report a case of a woman who had a sex with ant' , a young woman , who was a child . she was able to walk without a stick and a fortiori without crutches , and she threw them into the sea , with all my strength as far as possible from the sea and buried them , or thrown them into sea . he was buried in the sea with all his strength , so that they would be at peace forever . the hazard is a very rare haz

a receptacle , a bowl , and a little cap for it , out of tin , is a good idea for a hurry , but it is not de rigueur after all . the rattle , what about the rattle? It is the rattle that chokes . in this way i disposed of things that I loved but could no longer keep , because of new loves . and often I missed them so well that even I could never find them again .

a club in any case, I can’t help it, I must state the facts, without trying to understand, to the end . there are moments when I feel I have been here always, perhaps even was born here . but I have done with feeling and hypotheses . this club is mine and that is all about it . it is stained with blood , but insufficiently, insufficently . I have defended myself , ill, but defended themselves . that is what I tell myself some- times.

it has lost its brim, it looks like a bell-glass to put over a melon , and at last I would have it in my hands . it is perhaps the only object in my possession the history of which I have not forgotten , though I mean counting from the day it became mine .

despite the fact that a lot of things go out , and other things come in , through I know not what agency , there is little danger of my being wrong . a whole family of objects has never left me , since I have been here , but remained quietly in their place , in the corner , as in any ordinary uninhabited room . so that, strictly speaking , it is impossible for me to know , from one moment to the next, what is the change of my posses- sions . there is no guarantee things will ever be ever thus

if I had a penny I would let it make up my mind . if at dawn I am still there I shall take a decision. I am half asleep. But I dare not sleep. Rectifi- cations in extremis, in extremeissimis, are always possible after all . perhaps I should call in all my possessions such as they are and take them into bed with me . I shall hold my photograph in my hand, my stone , so that they can’t get away .

it is an ass, taken from in front and close up, at the edge of the ocean, it is not the ocean , but for me it is the ocean.the ocean looks so unnatural that you’d think you were in a studio, but is it not rather the reverse 1 should say? No trace left of an clothes for example, apart from the boot, the hat and three socks, I counted them . there have been no trace left left of my clothes . here we report a case of thJt .

the pots do not seem to be mine, but they are not mine . they answer to the defin- ition of what is mine , but their use is unlikely . if I ever succeed in filling it I shall empty them both out on the floor, but it is unlikely.but it is the definition that is at fault . perhaps it is a good chance . in this way I move my pots about, lift them up and set them down , and wait for them to empty as long as necessary .

a baby’s crutch was born . but it is still possible to do so , what is there to prevent me? I don’t know . to think I shall perhaps die of hunger, after all, of starvation rather, after having struggled successfully all my life against that menace . there is a providence for impotent old men, to the end . when they cannot swallow any more some- 254 SAMUEL BECKETT one rams a tube down their gullet, or up their rectum, and fill them full of vitaminized

the ebb is the most important . it is not always easy . I wonder if I could not contrive, wielding my stick like a punt-pole , to move my bed . this is a risk I do not feel inclined to take , just now . perhaps I should not have thought of this all the time I have been here .

the fear of falling is the source of many a folly . it is thus that man distinguishes himself from the ape and rises from discovery to discover', ever higher, towards the light . now that I have lost my stick I realize what it is and all it meant to me . so that I half discern , in the veritable catastrophe that has befallen me , a blessing in disguise .

to know you can do better next time, unrecognizably better, and that there is no next time and that it is a blessing there is not a thought to be going on with . I thought I was turning my stick to the best possible account, like a monkey scratching its fleas with the key that opens its cage . for it is obvious to me now that bV making a more intelligent use of my stick I might have extracted myself from my bed and perhaps even got myself back into it, when tired of rolling and dragging myself about the floor or on the stairs 

if they wish to help me would it not be more intelligent to give me poisoned soup , large quantities . they fear an autopsy . it is obvious they see a long way ahead . to turn to them for calm and merely obtain a diarrhoea , my , that would be annoying . in any case the question does not arise I am calm , insufficiently , still lack a little calm . if there is anything in it I mean, I shall try and get myself out of the bed for a start .

despite this torrent of civility, for he had eluded charity all his days , Macmann did not grasp that he was being spoken to . he wore a scraggy beard no doubt intended to heighten his resemblance to the Messiah . the speaker was a man , naturally in the flower and the prime of life , his features stamped with mildness and severity in equal proportions . yet again , he did not so much read as improvise or recite to judge by his appearance .

the paper he held in his hand and on which from time to time he cast an anxious eye . he finally handed this paper to Macmann , together with the stump of an indelible pencil , the point of which he first wetted with his lips , and requested him to sign , adding thai it was a mere formality . the other took back the paper and examined it and said, Mac what? It was then a woman’s voice, extraordinarily shrill and unpleasant, was heard to say, Mann, his name is Moll .

a little old woman is ill-favoured of both face and body . she seems called on to play a certain part in the remarkable events which, hopefully, will enable me to make an end . the thin yellow arms contorted by some kind of bone deformation, the lips so broad and thick that they seemed to devour half the face, were at first sight her most revolting features . it seemed probable to Macmann that he was committed to the care and charge of this person .

in the early stages, before he had grown used to this new tide in his fortune, she assuredly left him alone as little as possible and even watched over him part of the night . one day, not long after his admission, Macmann realized he was wearing, instead of his usual accoutre- ment, a long loose smock of coarse linen , or possibly drugget . he at once began to clamour loudly for his clothes , including probably the contents of his pockets , for he cried .

the hat was abandoned in the middle of anecdote , a selfsame hat that was abandonend . a few months later , she was discharged , and he had been discharged from the prison . as he continued to clamour for his things , as if he did ' ,ot understand a word of what she had just told him, he was obliged to invoke the regulations which tolerated on no account that an inmate should resume contact with the trappings of his derelict days until

it is true the Macmanns are legion in the island and pride them- selves, what is more, with few exceptions, on having one and all, in the last analysis, sprung from the same illustrious ball . it is therefore inevitable they should resemble one another, now and then, to the point of being confused even in the minds of those who wish them well and would like nothing better than to tell between them . no matter, any old remains of flesh and spirit do, there is no sense in stalking people . we shall then pass on to the second, and even

the relationship between macmann and his keeper was characterized by the evolution of the relationship . it was only natural they should not succeed, at the first shot, in giving each other the impression they wore made for each other . but far from losing heart they warmed to their work . although both were completely impotent they finally succeeded , summoning to their aid all the resources of the skin , the mucus and the imagination , in striking from their dry and feeble clips a kind of sombre gratification . he then made unquestionable progress in the use

a reminiscence of the fourth form of a letter was arranged in chronological order and tied together with a favour . the letters did not much vary in form and tenor , which greatly facilitated matters for Macmann . we shall soon die , you and I , that is obvious . here we have the key of the medicine cupboard .

stags and hinds have their needs and we have ours . it is even astonishing that you manage so well, I can hardly get over it , what a chaste and sober life you must have led . consider moreover that the flesh is not the end-all and the be-all, especially at our age , and name me the lovers who can do with their eyes what we can do mit- gations which will soon have seen all there is for them to see and have often great difficulty in remaining open and with their tenderness, without the help of passion ,

tetty-beshy is the season of love , let us make the most of it , there are pears that only ripen in December . we must beg to differ , and we must just accept ourselves as we a.e. And above all not fret, these are trifles . let us think of the hours when, spent, we lie twined together in the dark , our hearts laboring as one ; and listen to the wind saying what it is to be abroad , at night, in winter, and what it was to have been what it

this is a rare case of a man who had a sex with a young woman . he was a woman whose lifelong promise of love was regarded as a kind of lethal glue , a conception frequently to be met with in mystic texts . it is extraordinary that Macmann should have suc- ceeded , in .so short a time and after such inauspicious beginnings, in elevating himself to a view of this altitude . and one can only speculate on what he might have achieved if 

if it is indispensable to have in order not to have had and in order to have no longer, there is no obligation to expatiate upon it , let us rather let events speak MALONE DIES 265 for themselves , that is more or less the right tone .

this incident made a strong impression on Macmann and Moll rose with a bound in his affections . he was later to enjoy, when he put his tongue in her mouth and let it wander over her gums , this rotten crucifix had assuredly its part . but from these harmless aids what love is free? Sometimes it is an object, a garter I believe or a sweat-absorber for the armpit .

a saffron is a rare phenomenon characterized by a lack of squeamishness excusable in the faint-hearted , but which true love disdains . despite the fact that she has never smelt sweet and giving off the smell she was giving off , she was also subject to fits of vomiting . she vomited at length on the floor , and these dejections remained sometimes for hours where they fell , until such time as she had the strength to go and fetch what was needed to clean up the mess .

he had de- manded is hat . he cried , writhed and beat his breast , for she made no attempt to stop him and even left the room if it went on too long for he* liking . it was not that he was disinterested unless of course he suspected her of having stopped outside the door to listen . but he even carried his inconsequence to the length of wondering what right anyone had to take care of him .

lemuel was a man who had never seen him . he had a malevolence that was con- siderable . when he asked a question it was seldom he got an immediate answer . the question was that he remained for a long time plunged in thought .

if he was good he might indeed be let up one day and out into the pure plateau air , and that on that day , in the great hall where the staff assembled at dawn before entering on their duties , there would be seen pinned on the board a note thus conceived . if it came to the regulations Moll was inflexible and their voice was stronger than the voice of love, in her heart, whenever they made themselves heard there simultaneously . the oysters for example , which the Board had refused , but which she could easily have smuggled in 

a hammer from an inner pocket he dealt himself, right in the middle of his ancient wounds , so violent a blow that he fell down backwards . the part he struck most readily was the head , and that is understandable , for it too is a bony part, and sensitive, and difficult to miss, and the seat of all the shit and misery, so you rain blow blow upon it , with more pleasure than on the leg for example , which never did you any harm , it was *aly human . 

we have had a visit. Things were going too well. I jiad for- gotten myself, lost myself. I exaggerate. Things are not going too badly. I was elsewhere. Another was suffering. Then I had the visit. To bring me back to dying. If that amuses them. The fact is they don’t know, neither do I, but they think they know. An aeroplane passes, flying low, with a noise like thunder. It is certainly the first time I have heard it here, to my knowledge.

a market-gardener, he had*’ only one eye and wore side-whiskers . that’s the idea, rattle on . you could see the sea, the islands, the headlands, the isthmuses, the coast stretching away to north and south and the crooked moles of the harbour . we were on our way home from the butcher’s . my mother? Perhaps it is just another story, told me by some one who found it funny . the stories I was told, at one time!

he seemed vexed . a folding-rule, to- gether with a fin of white handkerchief emerged from the breast pocket with finger-tips , then without warning in a gesture of extraordinary suddenness and precision slapped on skull . I took him at first for the undertaker’s man , annoyed at having called prematurely . perhaps he hoped to have the satisfaction of seeing me expire before he left, that would probably havccsaed him time and trouble .

if you simply must speak of people who simply must put yourself in their place, it is not difficult . the only thing you must never speak of is your happiness , I can think of nothing else for the moment . this humiliation has been denied to me thanks to my aphony . my voice has gone dead, the rest will follow .

this afternoon JJU take his exercise-book from him, he seems to cherish it , but when he came back from his lunch he was no longer in the place where he had seen me put it . he leaned his weight upon it, standing beside the bed . when it bent he made use of it to raise my blankets . it was with this umbrella that I thought he would kill me , with its long sharp point .

despite the ease with which he wore his black and manipulated his umbrella and his consummate mastery , he was able to use his umbrella for a living and what they want with you . in spite of the ease of he wearing his black umbrella , the ne'er-do-well , and the lack of a sense of humour , malone wore a black umbrella and a consummate genius . he had a saline - shaped umbrella . this is the first time he has been sent by

if he is looking for something in particular, it would be so nice to know . I shall tear a page out of my exercise-book and re- produce upon it, from memory, what follows, and show it to him to-morrow, or to-day, or some other day, if she ever comes back . they were copiously caked with fresh mud and I said to myself . through what sloughs has he had to toil to reach me? It was then I saw he was wearing brown boots , which gave me such a

if you have only known then, now it is too late . he is perhaps just the first of a series of visitors , all different . they are going to relay one another , and they are numerous . to-morrow perhaps he will be wearing leggings, riding-breeches and a check cap , with a whip in his hand to make up for the umbrella .

ever caught a glimpse of, at close quarters or at a distance, may file past from now on , that is obvious . there may even be women and children, they will all be armed with something to lean on and rummage in my things with and then spend the rest of the day glaring at me in anger and disgust . perhaps one, one day, unmindful of his instructions, wilf give me my stick , or maybe one , one a little girl for example, and half strangle her, three quarters, until she promises to give

the g'cat black gesticulating pines gaze at the distant raging sea . the others are there too, or at their windows, like me, but on their feet, they must be able to move , or to be moved , no, not like me , they can’t do anything for anybody , clinging to the shivering pop- lars . they can do nothing for anyone clung to the pop-lars or at the windows , listening . it is a good idea that we have a better understanding of the

this exercise- book is my life, this big chi'd's exercise-book , it has taken me a long time to resign myself to that . a great striped cloak reaching down to* his ankles Macmann took the air in all weathers , from morning to night . more than once they had been obliged to go out looking for him with lanterns and to bring him back to his cell , for he had remained deaf to the call of the bell and to the shouts and threats first of Lemuel, then of

the fugitive was a keeper , a thorough brute though puny in appearance , and he remained in the same place . despite the fact that he did not surrender immediately , it was lemuel who went out alone , in silence , as always when he knew what he had to do, straight to the bush in which Macmann had made his lair , whenever this was necessary . it sometimes happened that Macmann, weary of not being alone went away alone and back into his cell and remained there until Lemu

the fact of having half demolished the bush , a kind of laurel , in order to hide in it , had never brought upon his head the least reproof . this is not necessarily surprising , there was no proof against him . besides no questions were ever asked in the House of Sain John of God , but stern measures were simply taken , or not token , according to tTie dictates of a peculiar logic . the mere fact of holding it for all to see in itself a felony, analogous to that of that of

the gulls were many in stormy weather which paused here on their flight inland , screeching with anger , then settled in the grass or on the house-to's , mistrustful of the trees . but that is all beside the point, like so many things . all is pretext, Sapo and the birds, Moll and the peasants , those who in the towns seek one another out and fly from one another , my doubts which do not interest me, my situation, my possessions and pretext for not coming to the

a high wall encompassed it about, without however shutting off the view, unless you happened to be in its lee . here a fine view was to be obtained of the plain, the sea, the mountains, the smoke of the town and the buildings of the institution , bulking large in spite of their remoteness and all astir with little dots or flecks forever appearing and disappearing , in reality the keepers coming and going , perhaps mingled with I was going to say with the prisoners .

a streaih at long intervals bestrid — but to hell with all this fucking scenery . the right to be abroad in all weathers morning, noon and night, trees and bushes with outstretched branches to wrap him round and hide him , food and lodging such as they were free of all charge , superb views on every hand out over the lifelong enemy , a minimum of persecution and corporal punishment , the song of the birds , no human contact except with Lemuel , who went out of his way to avoid him 

a keeper came out of the gate, on the road , shapes passed that Macmann could not understand , because of the bars , and all the trembling and raging behind him and beside him . he was able to escape from the gate , as if he could fall and his long blind life . but he had only to go on gasping , in his artless way . as he crept along by the wall under the cover of the bushes , searching for a breach through which he might slip out, under cover of night

a daguerreotype of a lodge in the hflgd is a rare occurrence , but it is not known if it has ever happened or would ever happen again . here we report a case of the lodges in which the lodge lodges were surrounded by a tree that hid him and turned back up the hill .

the sun was dragging itself up and dispatching on its way what perhaps would be, thanks to it, a glorious May or April day , it is doubtless the Easter week-end , spent by Jesus in hell . when giving this keep- sake to Macmann she had said , I was fourteen, I well remember the day a summer day, it was my birthday , afterwards they took me to see Punch and Judy .

in honour of this latter that Lady Pedal had organized, for the benefit of Lemuel’s group, this outing to the islands which was going to cost her dear, but she was well off and lived for doing good and bringing a little happiness into the lives of those less fortunate than herself , who was all right in her head and to whom hfe had always smiled or enlarged as in a convex mirror . Taking advantage of the terrestrial atmosphere that dimmed its brightness lemuelel glared with loathing at the sun .

a young man , dead young seated in an old rocking-chair , his shirt rolleo up and his hands on his thighs, would have seemed asleep had not his eyes been wide open . he never went out unless commanded to do so , and then someone had to accompany him in order to make him move forward . when he had not txen able to determine how best , that is to say with the minimum of fatigue and annoyance, to visit them in turn .

the Saxon was a Saxon , though he was far from being any such thing . he had swathed himself in his two blankets as in a rough and ready cocoon he wore his cloak . the soup of the previous day had congealed , and a bucket in each hand had been enough to carry the two buckets . this is the first time he has ceased to wonder on what this crea- ture fed .

a small thin man was pacing up and down, his cloak folded over his arm, an umbrella in his hand . he was asking himself questions in a low voice , reflecting , replying . without putting down his buckets Lemuel sent him flying with a toss of his shoulder . then , having recovered from his surprise, he began to cry .

we report a case of a man who was a foetus in the desert . he had refused to help him , but he was unable to understand what was wanted of him . his resistance had been the most lively , and he refused to assemble , single-handed , Pat .

the shite , a young man with the Messiah beard , was enlightened in tones without anger . he retaliated with petulant taps on his hands and arms and hung there , his legs limp . the youth , tormented by the sun, was grabbed feebly at the thin one’s umbrella , saying, Pasol! The Saxon, tottering , too proud to collapse . in spite of this Macmann continued peevish and agitated , trying to free his arm and

clung to the box, her bust flung back . Lady Pedal was a huge, big, tall, fat woman . the passengers , yielding with unanimous inertia to the tilt of the seats, sprawled pell-mell beneath the box . she cried. Nobody stirred. What good would that do? said one of the sailors . a giant lay op the boards , between the scats .

the Saxon is the shiverer . he was born in a fine house , of loving parents . the oars are no more , they raise themselves gently , faintly blue, out of the confused plain . it was there somewhere he had been born . they were a family - based family .

the island is covered with ling and furze, its hot yellow bells, better 288 SAMUEL BECKETT known as gorse . one could live there, perhaps happy , if life was possible thing, but nobody lives there . it is difficult to speak of man, under such conditions . come, Ernest, said Lady Pedal, let us find a place to picnic . she called that a dinghy . the thin one chafed to run about, but the youth had thrown himrelf down in the shade of a rock

the tangle of grey bodies is they . they are buried in their cloaks , they lie together in a heap , in the night . the Saxon cried, bending forward and slaoping his thighs , Nice work , sir, nice work! a little later Ernest came back to fetch them . going to meet him Lemuel killed him in his turn, in same way as the other .

lemuel is in charge, raises his hatchet on which the blood will never dry , but not to hit anyone , he will not hit anyone any more . the night is strewn with absurd absurd lights, the stars, the beacons, the buoys , the lights of earth and in the hills the faint fires of the blazing gorsc. Mac- mann , my last, my possessions, I remember he is there too, perhaps he sleeps.

aporia is not about me . it is about me. these few general remarks to begin with . what am I to do, what shall I do , what should I do, in my situation, how proceed? Generally speaking . there must be other shifts . Otherwise it would be quite hopeless . otherwise it is very hopeless. I should mention before going any further , any further on, that I say ephectic otherwise than unawares? I don’t know . can one be etiology without knowing what it means . if

a thing turns up, for some reason or another, take it into consideration . where there are people, it is said, there are things . does this mean that when you admit the former you must also admit the latter? Time will tell . the thing to avoid, I don’t know why, is the spirit of system . people with things, people without things, things with- out people, what does it matter , I flatter myself it will not take me long to scatter them, whenever I choose, to the winds.

we are all here, at least from Murphy on, but so far I have only seen Malone . the place is no doubt vast . Dim intermittent lights suggest a kind of distance . Stupid obsession with depth . to which one accedes by mine? I thought I had done with prelimin- aries . we have all been here forever, we shall all be here forever , I know it .

this is the first time that we have been here in the past . it is not that their meaning escapes me , my own escapes us just as much . here all things have proceeded , all this time , in the utmost calm, the most perfect order , apart from one or two manifestations the meaning of which escapes my . this is not in a spirit of curiosity . if we are not able to accom - plish other natural functions it is unaware .

here all is clear. no, all is not clear. But the discourse must go on. So one invents obscurities. Rhetoric. These lights for instance, which I do not require anything, what is there so strange about them, so wrong? Is it their irregularity, their instability, their shining strong one minute and weak the next, but never beyond the power of one or two candles? Malone appears and disappears with the punc- tuality of clockwork, always at the same remove, the same velocity, in the same direction, the opposite attitude . but even to

if a change was to take place , resulting from a prin- ciple of disorder already present , or on its way, what then? That would seem to depend on the nature of the change . no, here all change would be fatal and land me back, there and then, in all the fun of the fair . it comes to the same thing, as far as discerning its limits is concerned .

this is probably the most pleasing to me . in a word, no change apparently since I have been here, disorder of the lights perhaps an illusion, all change to be feared, incomprehensible uneasiness . that I am not stone deaf is shown by the sounds that reach me , for though the silence here is almost unbroken , it is not com- 298 SAMUEL BECKETT pletely so . it is therefore permissible, in the light of this distant analogy, to think of myself as being here forever, but not as having

a man may die at the age of seventy without ever hav- ing had the possibility of seeing Halley’s comet . it would help me , since to me too I must attribute a start- ning if I could relate it to that of my abode . by far the better of these hypotheses, from the point of view of usefulness, is the latter , and I shall often have occasion to fall back on it .

we report a case of an incident that has only occurred once , so far . it has only been reported once . in this article , we describe the case of a pseudocouple Mercier- Camier , who entered into collision before me .

this is the first time that a person has been indebted for this informa- tion to persons with whom I can never have been in contact . it is improbable to me . this seems to me to be innate knowledge of my mother , for example , is that conceivable? Not for me. She was one of their favourite subjects , of conversation . they also gave me the low-down on God .

to swallow was my fellow-creatures . in this they were without mercy . they gave me courses on love, on intelligence, most precious, most valuable , and even to reason . some of this rubbish has come in handy on occasions , I don’t deny it , on occasions which would never arisen if they had left me in peace . perhaps all this nonsense stopped? A few last questions. Is it merely a lull?

despite this erratic interval , my two visitors may some day meet before my eyes, collide and perhaps even knock each other down . for the interval may vary considerably , and indeed it seems to me it does, without ever being abolished . however , the interval never varies . if I were never to see the two of them at once , then it would follow , or should follow, that between their respective appearances .

the only encounter I ever wit- nessed, a long time ago now, has never yet been re-enacted . it was perhaps the end of something . and I shall perhaps be delivered of Malone and the other, not that they disturb me, the day I see the two of them at one and the same time, that is to say in collision . unfortunately they are not the only disturbers of my peace . others come towards me, pass before me , wheel about me . but in the long run it might become wearisome.

the en- closure wall of my eyes is a grey , dimly transparent, and beyond that charmed circle deepens and spreads its fine impenetrable veils . this grey, first murky, then frankly opaque, is luminous none the less . to elucidate this point I would need a stick or pole , and the means of plying it , the latter being of little avail without the latter, and vise versa . then I would dart it, like a javelin straight before me and know, by the sound

if all grow black or all grow bright, or all remain grey, it is grey we ndfed, to begin with, because of what it is, and what it can do, made of bright and black, able to shed the former, or the latter, and be the latter or the former alone . but perhaps I am the prey, on the subject of grey, in the grey, to delusions . how, in such conditions, can I write, to consider only the manual aspect of that bitter folly? I can count on my body alone, my body incapable of the smallest movement and

the simplest therefore is to say that what I say, what I shall say, if I can, relates to the place where I am, to me who am here, in spite of my inability to think of these, or to speak of them, because of the 304 SAMUEL BECKETT compulsion I am under to talk of them . but the most important thing is to add this . a little , sufficiently, I don’t know how, unimportant , in relatiqn to my who was elsewhere , and to those places where I was, where I

i am not heading for disaster, but heading anywhere, my adventures are over, my say said, I call that my adventures. And indeed I greatly fear, since my speech can only be of me and here that I am once more engaged in putting an end to both. Which would not matter, far from it, but for the obligation, once rid of them, to begin again again from nowhere, from no one and from nothing and win to me agiiin, to me here again, by fresh ways to be sure, or by the ancient ways, unrecog- nisable at each fresh far

tfk is a rare disease that is characterized by a lack of tininess . it is the first time that a rat has been gnawed to death in the Caucasus , before being torn again . but it seems impossible to speak and yet say nothing , you think you have succeeded , but you always orlook something , a little yes . yet i do not despair , this time , while saying who I am, where I am , of not losing me and not going from here, of ending here

the fact that Prometheus was delivered twenty-nine thou- sand nine hundred and seventy years after having purged his offence leaves me naturally as cold as camphor . for between me and that miscreant who mocked the gods, invented fire, denatured clay and domesticated the horse, in a word obliged humanity, I trust there is nothing in common , but the thing is worth mentioning . all these Murphys, Molloys and Malones do not fool me . they have made me waste my time, suffer

tjiem is one of the most common causes of death in the world . it is a rare phenomenon , which is characterized by a number of diseases , such as cancer , apoptosis , and cancer . we report a case of a man who died in april 2012 , in which he died . he was diagnosed with a sex - related disease , but he had not been diagnosed with cancer ; however , it is not clear if he is unable to speak .

my eyes closed , but what makes me say I gaze straight before me , as I have said? I feel my back straight, my neck stiff and free of twist and up on top of it the head , like the ball of the cup-and- ball in its cup at the end of the stick . this question in any case THE UNNAMABLB 307 is secondary , since I see nothing .

sistency is more like that of mucilage But softly, softly , other- wise I’ll never arrive . in the matter of clothes then 1 can think of nothing for the moment but possibly puttees clinging to me here and there . all those things have fallen, all the things that stick out, with my eyes, my hair, without leaving a trace, fallen so far so deep, that I heard nothing, perhaps are falling still . the worst is dulled , you doze away, an instant .

we report a case of a tfhich , a black tahich that enfolded me in a moment worthier than grey . a few days later , we resembling the same old lesson , the .one I once knew by heart and would not say, I deto’t know why , perhaps for fear of silence , or thinking any old thing would do , and so for preference lies , in order to remain hidden , no impor- tance . the reams of discourse I

a voice that speaks, knowing that it lies, indifferent to what it says , too old perhaps and too abased ever to succeed in saying the words that would be its last , knowing itself useless and its uselessness in vain , not listening to itself but to the silence that it breaks and whence perhaps the silence breaks . let it be assumed then that I am at rest , though this is unimportant , at rest or forever moving , through the air or in contact with other surfaces , or that I sometimes move, sometimes rest, since I feel nothing, neither quietude nor

this is a syllable dis- course which is not credited to me and brings me not a nearer silence . this is typical . it is to prevent the discourse from coming to an end , this futile dis - course . if the discourse is not addressed to me , it will not come to end . here , we report a case of a woman who had a voice that is not mine .

a murmur is a plethora of formulae , which I promised myself to turn to good account at the first opportunity , that is to say as soon as I had finished with my troop of lunatics . but all has gone clean from my head . for it is difficult to speak , even any old rubbish , and at the same time focus one’s attention on another point where one's true interest lies , as'fitfully defined by a feeble murmur seeming to apologise for not being dead . it seems to me that a

babababa is a venerable organ , and it is one of Basil’s ideas . a short time, a long time, it’s all the same . it is all very fine to keep silence , but one has also to consider the kind of silence one keeps .

it is my voice which has often, always, mingled with mine, and sometimes drowned it completely . it is his voice that has often , always , woven into mine, preventing me from saying who I was, what I was , so as to have done with saying , done with listening . but his voice continued to testify for me , as though woven in mine , blocking me from telling me who he was . if he plagues me no more his voice is there, in mine, but less, less . in order that to happen

mahood 's story is a story of a free agent , but it would not be my voice , not even in part . the story would begin as if nothing had happened and I still the teller and the told . but now, is it I now, I on me? Sometimes I think it is. And then I realise it is not. I am doing my best, but peacefully, victorious, without ulterior object . it would be a life worth having, a lifetime at last . my speech-parched voice at rest would fill with

the pensum of which I think I may safely say, without loss of face , THE UNNAMABLE 313 that it is in some way related to that lesson too hastily proclaimed , too havetily denied . for all I need say is this , that if I have a penum to perform it is because I could not say my lesson , and that when I have finished my penum I shall still have my lessonto say , before I have the right to say .

a task to be performed before one can be at rest consists in speaking of oneself . it may seem natural , once the idea of obligation has been swallowed , that I should interpret it as an obligation to say something . but is it possible? Bereft of hands , perhaps it is my duty to clap or, striking the palms together, to call the waiter , and of feet, to dance the Carmagnole . thence to infer that the something required is something about me suddenly strikes me as unwar- ranted .

ifMahood were my master? I’ll lea’-e it at that, for the time being . so many prospects in so short a time, it’s too much . Decidedly it seems impossible, at this stage, that I should dispense with questions , as I promised myself I would . no, I merely swore I would stop asking them . perhaps before long, who knows, I shall light on the happy combination which will prevent them from ever arising again in my — let us not be over-nice — mind .

remem- ber certain things, not always always the same . to investigate this matter seriously , I mean with as much futile ardour as that of the underling , which I hoped was mine, close to mine, the road to mine , no, that never occurred to me . if it occurs to me now it is because I have despaired of mine.a moment of dis- couragement, to strike while hot . my master then assuming he is solitary in my image, wishes me well, poor devil, wishes my good, and if

a little more explicit- ness on his part, since the initiative belongs to him, might be a help, as well from his point of view as from the one he Attributes to me . Let the man explain himself and have done with it . let him inform me once and for all what exactly it is he wants from me, for me , assuming he exists and , existing, hears me ; but what good, there must be more than one .

the 316 SAMUEL BECKETT fact of my continuing, while they are thus engaged, to be what I have always been is naturally preferable to a lame resolution, voted perhaps by a majority of one , or drawn from an old hat . they too are unhappy, all this time, each one to the best of his capacity, because all is not well with me . if that doesn’t mollify them so much the worse for me, I can still conceive of such a thing .

a dupe is an accident , a fact . nothing can ever exempt me from it , there is nothing to discover, nothing to recover , nothing that can lessen what re- mains to say , I have the ocean to drink , so there is an ocean then . a deed that can’t be grasped , or limited, or felt, or suffered, no, not even suffered I suffer all wrong too , even that I do all wrong , like an old turkey-hen dying on her feet, her back covered with chickens and the

if we were one and the same after all, as he affirms , and I deny , we were in the places where he says I have been , instead of having stayed on here , trying to take advan- tage of his absence to unravel my tangle?

in my domain , what is Mahood doing in his domain, and how does he get here? here we are launched again on the same old hopeless business , there we are face to face, Mahood and I, if we are twain, as I say we are.this time I .im short of a leg. And yet it appears that it appears I have rejuvenated . this time .i .middle , a single leg and other distinctive stigmata to go with it, human to be sure, but not exaggeratedly

a lambkinette is a narcotic , a rare ephemeral . it has been a long - term etiology , but it has not been known if it is an instant . here , we report a case of an instant in which he was an instant, hobbling through a nature which, it is only fair to say, was on the barren side and tolerably deserted to begin with .

if by dint of winding myself up , if I may venture that ellipse , it doesn’t often happen to me now , but a difficulty arises here . if ad infinitum , once launched in the opposite direction should I not normally unfold , the space in which I was marooned being globular , or is it the earth , no matter , I know what I mean . there was one a moment ago, I could swear to it .

despite the fact that the equator is a gyration , it seems to me that once beyond the aquator you would start turning inwards again , out of sheer necessity , I some- how have that feeling . at the particular moment I am referring to, I mean when I took myself for Mahood, I must have been coming to the end of a world tour , perhaps net more than two or three centum % to go . my state of decay lends colour to this view , but even without such aids , me they would

a y r d so long deserted was now enlivened, for them, by me . so we turned, in our respective orbits, I without, they within . the children increased in stature , the periods of Ptomaine grew pale, the ancients glowered at each other, muttering to themselves . since my arrival they had a subject of conversation, and even of discussion, the same as of old , at the moment of my setting forth , perhaps even an interest in life hung less heavy on their hands .

mahood is a family of children who have been a fine baby . he was always a mite , always stopping , wasn't he. Granny? Yes indeed, never easy, always stopped . according to Mahood I never reached them, that is to say they all died first, the whole ten or eleven of them, carried off by sausage-poisoning . incommoded first by their shrieks, then by the stench of decomposition, I turned sadly away . the last laps* won’t take him long

the narrators themselves, torn from their melan- choly thoughts, could scarce forbear to smile . a burst of clear and innocent laughter, from the mouths of those whom sleep had not yet overcome, greeted this premature conclusion . finally my wife announced the latest news, for them to take to bed with them . it was then customary that someone should ask her if I was ap- proaching none the less , if in spite everything I was making headway, they couldn’t bear the thought of going to bed .

this is a rare case of a revolving creature in a yard , a creature that was unable to receive the least information either from its instinct or from its observation as to whether it is moving towards the stable or away from it , and not greatly caring either way . the question of how such things are possible had long since ceased to preoccupy me . this touching picture of my situation I found by no means un- attractive and as I recall it I find myself wondering again if I was not in fact the creature , as Mahood assured me that remarked the habitation

a man with only one leg has a tendency to sink to earth in the full force-pf the expression , especially when he is weak in the head and the sole surviving leg flaccid for want of exercise , or from excess of it . if the crow flies , to my goal , I did not quicken my step . to go on and get on has been my only care , if not always in a straight line , at least in obedience to the figure assigned to me , there was never any room in my life for

the crutches and collapse are the most common crutch in the world . it is a recurrence in the midst of my family all trying to embrace me at once , until by virtue of a supreme spasm I am catapulted in the opposite direction and gradu- ally leavi backwards , without having said good-evening . he casually let fall that I was lacking not only a leg, but an arm also , with the help of my unique foot to kick the end of it forward as occasion required . the

the screams of pain and wafts of decomposition would have seemed to me quite in the natural order of things , such as I had come to know it . if before such manifestations I had been compelled eacl time to turn aside, I should not have got very far . my family of mine, the mere fact of having a family should have put me on my guard , but my good-will at certain moments is such , and my longing to have floundered how- ever briefly, however feebly, in the great life torrent

the bacillus botulinus should have exterminated my entire kith and kin , I shall never weary of repeating this , was something I could readily admit , but only on condition that my personal behaviour had not to suffer by it . why should he have lied to me , he so anxious to obtain my adhesion , to what now that I come to think of it, to his conception of me? Why? For fear of paining me perhaps . what they all wanted, each according to his particular notion of what is endurable, was that

ejected me into this world and the other, infundibuliform, in which, pumping my likes, I tried ,to take my revenge . to tell the truth, let us be honest at least, it is some considerable time now since I last knew what I was talking about . it is because my thoughts are elsewhere . so long as one’s thoughts arc somewhere everything is permitted . on then, without misgiving, as if nothing had happened . let us consider what really took place if Mahood was telling the truth when he represented me as rid at

we report a case of an infant who was found under a cabbage in the garden and the kind of life he led there before joining the family circle . he was found in a small cabbage , and he remembers the exact spot of the garden . the infant was found to have a thou-beef , which was found on the ground floor of the arena , a single room flush with the arena, and there completed my rounds , stamping under foot the unrecognisable remains of my family , here a face, there a stomach

sands of times, in thousands of connections, until I must have begun to look as if I understood . who would ever think, to hear me, that I’ve never seen anything," never heard anything but their voices? and man, the lectures they gave me on men, before they even began trying to assimilate me to him ! WYiat I speak of, what I speak with, all comes from them , it will be a start, a step towards silence and the end of madness , the madness of having to speak THE UNNAMABLE 327

the lira they have glutted me with is not a word of the stories it spews , like gobbets in a vomit . it is a matter of voices , no other metaphor is appro- priate . they have blown me up with their voices, like a balloon , and even as I collapse it’s them they have abandoned me , saying . 328 SAMUEL BECKETT nothing more from them lately?

the tfame old gang, an.cng themselves , no matter , to hell with silence , has nothing to be done with him , let’s leave it at that , he’s not dangerous . no, they have nothing to fear , I am walled round with their vociferations , none will ever know what I am, no will ever hear me say it, I can’t say it , even with their language , for me alone , so as not to have not lived in vain, and so as to go silent

maniacs let loose on me from on high for what they call my good , adver- saries , mind , senses , and execration and disbelief . perhaps they exist in the way they have decreed will be mine , it’s possible , I don’t know and I’m not interested . if they had taught me how to wish I’d wish they did , there’s no getting rid of them without naming them and their contraptions , that’s the thing to keep in mind.

the island is a boglands , a parabolic sweep that embraces entire boglandes , now be- tween the two , somewhere or other , and invariably unpredictable in direction , that is to say determined by the panic of the moment . here , we describe the life of which I have best assimilated and retained . if I turn, I shall not say my head, but my eyes, free to roll as they list , I can see the statue of the apostle of the shambles .

a pnly look at me a second time , those who can bring them- selves to do it , to have immediately their minds made easy . for my face reflects nothing but the satisfaction of one savouring a well-earned rest . it is true my mouth was hidden , most of the time, and my eyes closed . but sometimes it is in the past , some- times in the present . even here the risk is negligible .

the state of my skull, covered with pustules and bluebottles, preserved me from being an object of envy for many, and a source of discontent . this duty fell to the pro- prietress of the chop-house across the street and she performed it punctually and without complaint , beyond an occasional good- natured reflection to the 'effect that I was a nasty old pig , for she had a kitchen-garden . she took advantage of the circumstance that my mouth was accessible to stick into it a chunk of lights or a m

it must not be forgotten that I represented for this woman an undeni- able asset . for quite apart from the services I rendered to her lettuce, I constituted for her establishment a kind of landmark, not to say an advertisement, far more effective than for example a chef in cardboard, pot-bellied in profile and full face wafer thin . that she was well aware of this is shown by the trouble she had taken to festoon my jar with Chinese lanterns , of a very pretty effect in the twilight, and a fortiori in the night

this should help me to live . she will do her best to prevent the removal of the old vase in which I shall have accomplished my vicissitudes . but it is not to speak of her that I have started lying again . de nobis ipsis silemus decidedly that should have been my motto . yes, they gave me some lessons in pigsty Latin too , it looks well , sprinkled through the perjury . it is perhaps worjjh noting that snow alone, provided of course it is heavy , entitles me

this is one of their favourite devices to stop suddenly at the least sign of adhesion from me, leaving me high and dry, with nothing for my renewal but the life they have imputed to me . it is only when they see me stranded that they take up again the thread of my misfortunes , judging me still insufficiently vitalised to bring them to a successful contusion alone . but instead of making the junction, I have often noticed this, I mean instead of resuming me at the point where I was left off, they pick me up at 

if I ever succeed in dying under my own steam, then they will be in a better position to decide whether I am worthy to adorn another age, or to try the same one again, with the benefit of my experience . I may therefore perhaps legiti- mately suppose that the one-armed one-legged wayfarer of a moment ago ftnd the wedge-headed trunk in which I am now marooned are simply two phases of the same carnal envelope , the soul being notoriously immune from deterioration and dismember- ment.

we report a case of a woman blinded by the jar a few inches away . the woman , dis- pleased at seeing me sink lower and lower, has raised me up by filling the bottom of my jar with sawdust which she changes every week , when she makes my toilet . it is softer than the stone, but less hygienic* And I had got used to the stone . this is an occupation , but it saps one’s energy .

if we can still open and close my eyes, as in the good old days, we can no longer move my head in arjd out , because of my roguish character , in the old days . for a collar fixed to the mouth of the jar, now encircles my neck , just below the chin , and my lips which used to be hidden can now be seen by all and sundry . to have THE UNNAMABLE 335 lost one’s limbs and preserved one's dentition , what a mockery .

asphyxia is a rare thorax , but it is still a tumefaction of the penis . this is the first case of scrota in a Suffolk stallion . it is one of the most common causes of death . here we report a case of an opportunistic occlusion , which is characterized by a lack of a cure .

the trouble they’ve taken to bring you to life is over . the worst is over. You’ve been sufficiently assassinated, sufficiently suicided, to be able now to stand on your own feet, like a big boy . they have put you on the right road, led by the ha id to the very britfk of the precipice , now it’s up to you, with an unassisted last step, to show them your gratitude . through the splendours of nature they dragged a paralytic and now there is nothing

the organs of digestion and evacuation, though sluggish, are not wholly inactive , as is shown by the atten- tions I receive . it seems to stir, from time to time, no reason therefore to despair of a fit of apoplexy . while there is life there’s hope . the flies , considered as traumatic agents, hardly call for mention .

tf|py may be pleased with me, and perhaps leave me in peace at last , and free to do what I have to do namely try and please the other , if that is what he has to do, so that he may be happy with me and maybe leave me within peace at least . but little by little the old problem will rgise its horrid head , how to live with their kind of life , for a single second , young or old, without aid and assistance . in dther circumstances, I shall start asking myself

it is a question of voices to keep going, in the right manner, when they stop, on the right way . it will perhaps be less restful than I appear to think, alone there at last , and never importuned . here at last, it seems to me, is food for delirium What a shame if I should pitch on something and never notice i‘., another candle throw its little light and I be none the wiser . no matter, rest is one of their words, think is another.

a parrot , that’s what they’re up against , is what they have to say , in order to meet with their approval . but what is the right manner, I don't know , it is they who dictate this torrent of balls , they who stuffed me full of these groans that choke me . it all pours unchanged , I have only to belch to be sure of hearing them , the same old sour teachings I can’t change a tittle of . if they had told me what I have to

thi! fond hope, which buoyed me up as recently as a moment ago, has now passed from me . two labours then , to be distin- guished perhaps, as the mine from the quarry , on the plane of the effort required , but identically deficient in charm and interest . the galley-man , bound for the Pillars of Her- cules , drops his sweep under cover of night and crawls be- tween the thwarts , towards the rising sun , unseen by the sun .

mammalian mammal is a higher mammmal . it has been a fatal effect on my development , my lack of memory , no doubt about it . here , we report a case of a mamal , in which a man - agerie was born . he was a suppliant , and he alone or they a many , all solicit me in the same tongue , the only one they taught me .

it mattered to pupil Mahood, that man was this rather than that? Presumably nothing has been lost in any case, since here it all comes slobber- ing out again, let loose by the nightmare . but it’s time I gave this solitary a name, nothing doing without proper names . it will be my name too, when the time comes, when I needn’t be called Mahood any more, if that happy time ever comes .

it is true poor Worm is not to blame for this . but let me complete my views , before .T shit on them . for if I am Mahood. I am Worm too., plop. Or if not yet Worm, I shall be when I cease to be Mahood, p. on now to serious matters . another of Mahood’s yarns perhaps, to perfect my THE UNNAMABLE 3-tt besotment . no, not worth the trouble, it will come at its appointed hour, the record is in position

where I am , it little matters thanks to what dispensation . the essential is to go on squirming forever at the end of the line as long as there are waters and banks and ravening in heaven a sport- ing God to plague his creature, per pro his chosen shits . I’ve swal- lowed three hooks and am still hungry . what a joy to know where one is, and where one will stay, without being there . nothing to do but stretch out comfortably on the rack in the blissful knowledge you are nobody for

it long ago if I knew where to find her . it brings us up to four, gathered together . I knew it, there might be a hun- dred of us and still we’d lack the hundred and first, we’ll always be short of me . perhaps it's by trying to be Worm that I’ll finally succeed in being Mahood , 1 hadn’t thought of that . theli all I'll have to do is be Jones , which no doubt I shall achieve by trying 's .

the aperitif is the hour of the day, especially when, as sometimes happens, it is also that of, the setting sun whose last rays, raking the street from end to end lend to my cenotaph an interminable shadow, astraddle of the gutter and the sidewalk . there was a time I used to contemplate it, when I was freer to turn my head than now, since being put in the collar . then over there, far from me, I knew my head was lying, and people treading on it, and on my 

this evening is a winter dish, or a late autumn one . this evening there is tripe . it’s a cold winter dish , or an early autumn dish . here all is killing and eating . a gjjive is the fruit of my observations accumulated over a long period of years and constantly subjected to a process of in-duction .

this is a refinement of feeling which can hardly be attributed to the dogs that come jessing against my abode , apparently never doubting that it contains some flesh and bones . it follows therefore that I have no smell either . how, under these conditions, can Mahood expect me to behave normally? if anyone should have a smell , it is I .

we have here a principle of change pregnant with possibilities , but say T succeed in dying, to adopt the most comfortable* hypothesis , without hav- ing been able to believe I ever lived , J know to my cost it is not that they wish for me . for it has happened to me many times already, without their having granted me as much as a brief sick- leave among the worms , before resurrecting me , despite their granted me so much as an brief sick - leave on his arm , at the precise moment when my last is favouring

a doctor who held that scientifically speaking the latest breath could only issue from the fundament and this therefore, rather than the mouth, the orifice to which the family shoiftd pre- sent the mirror, before opening the will . however this may be, and without dwelling further on these macabre details, it is certain I was grievously mistaken in supposing that death in itself could be regarded as evidence , or even a strong presumption, in support of a preliminary life .

the redoubled attentions she has lavished on me for some time past have been a challenge , but it is a matter of habit . the next thing is somehow to connect this with the unhappy Madeleine and her great goodness . attentions such as hers, the pertinacity with which she continues to acknowledge me, do not these sufficiently attest my real presence here, in the Rue Brandon, never heard of in my island home? Would she rid me of my paltry excrements every Sunday, make me a nest at the approach of winter, protect me from

jar is really stand- ing where they say, all right, I wouldn’t dream of denying it, after all it’s none of my business, though its presence at such a place, about the reality of which I do not propose to quibble either, does not strike me as very credible . no, I merely doubt that I am in it. It is easier to raise a shrine than bring the deity down to haunt it . it is not sur- prising then she should have visions . there was a time I thought she was perhaps a near relation, mother

if I say anything to the contrary again I shall be mistaken again. unless I am mistaken now. Into the dossier with it in any case, in support of whatever thesis you faifcy. Never an affectionate word, never a reprimand. For fear of bringing me to the public notice? Or lest the illusion should be dispelled? I shall now sum up. The moment is at hand when my only believer must deny me. Nothing has happened. The lanterns have not been lit.not because I see no stars, it is not often I sec 

the tarpaulin weighing on my 4iead , is lacking too . has my head lost all feeling? Or did I have a stroke, while I was meditating? I don’t know . I shall be patient, asking no more questions, on the qui vive. Hours have passed, it must be day again, nothing has hap- 348 SAMUEL BECKETT pened, I hear nothing. I placed them before their responsibilities, perhaps they have let me go for this feeling of being entirely en- closed, and yet nothing

the problem is I say it wrong, having no ear, no head, no memory . now I seem to hear them say it is Worm’s voice beginning, I pass on the news, for what it is worth . Do they believe it is I who am speaking? That’s theirs too . to make me believe I have an ego all my own, and can speak of it, as they of theirs . it’s how to fall into it they can’t have explained to me sufficiently . why do they speak to me thus? Is it possible certain things change on their

in this paper, we discuss a case of a man who was conceived as a famished man , and who , having nothing human , has nothing else , is nothing . he was born unborn , abiding there unliving , with no hope of death , epicentre of joys, of griefs , of calm . the one outside of life we always were in toe end , all ojr long vain life long .

it is a question of voices, no other image is appropriate . it is only a matter of voices , no one else is appropriate.the undertaking is none of mine , if they want nle to succeed I’ll fail , and vice versa , so as not to be rid of my tormentors . I have no voice , in this matter I have none . that’s one of the reasons why I confused myself with Worm . if I were Worm I wouldn’t know it , I wouldn't say it, I would be

if they could only begin, and do what they want with me, and succeed at last, in doing what they wanted with me . they are tired of being matter, matter , pawed and pummelled endlessly in vain . or give me up and leave me lying in a heap , in such a pile that none would ever be found THE UNNAMABLE 35* again to try and fashion it . but they are not of the same mind , they are all of a same kidney and yet they don’t know what they do with me.

if they ever succeed in getting me to give a voice to Worm, in a moment of euphory, perhaps perhaps I’ll succeed in making it mine . there we have the stake . they won’t. Did they ever get Mahood to speak? I think Murphy spoke now and then , the others too perhaps, I don’t remember , but it was clumsily done , you could sec the ventriloquist . now I feel it’s about to begin .

we have a sleight of hand accomplished , and we must speak of Worm . we know it , but we dcyi’t say it, we say it’s the awakening, the beginning of the affliction and the struggle to withstand it, the starting eye , the labouring mind . it is no longer he, but let us proceed as if it were still he , he at last, who hears and trembles, and is delivered over , to •J52 SAMUEL BECKETT aff

this infinitesimal lag, between arrival and de- parture, this trifling delay in evacuation, is all I have to worry about* The truth about me will boil forth at last, scalding, provided of course they don’t start stuttering again. I listen. Enough pro- crastination. I am no longer Worm, but a kind of tenth-rate Toussaint L’Ouverturc, that’s what they’re counting on . Worm then I catch this sound that will never stop

hornets smoked out of their nest , once a certain degree of terror has been exceeded . to argue so would be to underestimate the extent of the repertory irf which I am plunged and which, it appears, is nothing compared to what is in store for me at the conclusion of the novitiate . these lights gleaming low afar, then rearing up in a blaze and sweeping down upon me, blinding, to devour me , are merely one example .

we report a case of a young man who was a child whose name they call me by , and no other . he was born a few years ago , but he died a year after his death . this is the first time he had been born . it has been reported that he did not have a life - threatening illness . but it seems to me to remember what I was like when I was Worm .

il seems to me too, which is even more deplorable, that I could become Worm again , if I were left in peace . this transmis- sion is*really excellent . it is not for me to judge. What would I judge with? It's more provocation. They want me to lose patience and rush, suddenly beside myself, to their rescue . sometimes I say to myself, they say to me , the subject matters little , that my pur- veyors are more than one, four or five . there arc long silences too

we must first, to begin with, go back to his beginnings and then, to go on with, follow him patiently through the various stages, taking care to show their fatal concatenation, which have made him what I am. The whole to be tossed off with bravura. Then notes from day to day, until I collapse. And finally, to wind up with, song and dance of thanksgiving by victim, to celebrate his nativity.

this is the first case of a woman who was born in a tain . he was born a few years ago , but he had not been conceived . the first time he died , and the second day was restored , the same as in the past . this is a case of an unthinkable ancestor of whom nothing can be said . in this case report , we discuss the ancestry of this woman , who is on my way .

if I speak of a head, referring to me, it’s because I hear it being spoken of . why keep on saying the same thing? They hope things will change one day, it's natural . that one day on my wind- pipe, or some other section of the conduit, a nice little abscess will form, with an idea inside, point of departure for a general infection . this (vould enable me to jubilate like a normal person, knowing why ) a network of fistulae, bubbling with the blessed pus

the meeflanism matters little, provided I succeed in saying, before I go deaf . it’s a voice , and it speaks to me . in inquiring boldly , boldly, if it is not mine , it doesn’t matter how , that I have none . he’s off , they don’t see me , but they don't see them . we must have the heavens and God knows what besides, lights, luminaries, the three- monthly ray of hope and the gleam of conso

it is true that I have not spoken yet . in at one ear and incontinent out 358 SAMUEL BECKETT through the mouth , or the other ear , that’s possible too . the words swarm and jostle like ants , hasty , indifferent bringing nothirig , taking nothing away , too light to leave a mark . there is no one but me but me , if he thinks of it , it will make no difference .

this question of lights deserves to be treated in a section apart, it is so intriguing, and at length, composedly, and so it will be, at the first opportunity, when time is not so short, and the mind more composed . the only noises Worm has had till now are those of mohths . he is now with breath in his nostrils , it only remains for him to suffocate .

a head has grown out of his ear, the better to enrage him, that must be it . it is a transformer in which sound is turned, without the help of reason, to rage and terror, that’s all that matters, for the moment . the circumvolutionisation will be seen too later, when they get him out . why then the human voice, rather than a hyena’s howls or the clanging of hammer? thjt the shock may not be too great, when the writhings of true lips meet

the peep hole is a form of hope that has been employed by the catechist . it is difficult not to suppose them sustained by some form of remark . but what is the nature of the change they are on the !oo‘: out for, gluing one eye tef the hole and closing the other . they have no pedagogic purpose in view , that’s definite . there is no question of imparting to him any instruction whatso- ever, for the moment .

no matter where he goes he will go towards them , towards their song of triumph , when they know he has moved , or towards their sudden silence . he can’t think anything, can't judge of anything, but the kind of flesh he have is good enough, will try and go where peace seems to be, drop and lie when it suffers no more, or less, or can go no further . in this way they will bring him to the wall, and even to the precise point where they have made other holes through which to pass their arms and seize

the purpose of this study was to examine the etiology of the sex of a young man , who was born in the neoplasm . he was born and raised in the middle of the 20th century , and he died in the early 70s . in the present study , he had a history of euphoria , which he inherited from his father , but he did not have a life -warrant .

the scales must tilt, to one side or the other . it is strange they do not go and fetch him in his den , since the> seem to have access to it . they dare not, the air in the midst of which he lies is not for them, and yet they want him to breathe theirs . there is a tiny blur in the depths of the pit, is he . here , he is now in a pit , no avenue will have Feen left unexplored .

abouj is a symbiosis of the etiology , which is characterized by a lack of euphoria . it is not the earth , it can’t be a hole in the earth, inhabited by Worm alone , or by others if you like , huddled in a heap like him, mute , immovable , and this voice the voice of those who mourn them, envy them , call on them and forget them, that would account for its incoherence 

the rascal is getting humanised , he’s going to lose if he doesn’t watch out , and with what could he take care, with what might he form the faintest conception of the condition they are decoying him into , with their ears , their eye? it seems difficult to credit him with an initiative of this complexity .

blather is a neoplasm of the etiology , which is characterized by a series of symbiosis . it is based on the adolescence of the brain , and the resemblance of a human body . the saline - based , affluent - and bftkering , is the first - line - of - mind - to - body , in which he is unable to be able to

the present case is rather special . but what appear- ances, it is always well to try ahd find out what one h talking about, even at the risk of being deceived . a man would wonder where his kingdom ended, his eye strive to penetrate the gloom and he crave for a stick, an arm, fingers apt to grasp and then release , at the right moment, a stone, stones or for the power to utter a cry and wait, counting the seconds, for it to come back to him , and suffer , certainly

a head abandoned to its ancient solitary resources suffers only from the noise which prevents him from being what he was before , admire the nuance . if it is not it makes no difference , he suffers as he has always suffered , from this noise that prevents nothing, that must be feasible . in any case this grey can hardly be said to add to his misery, brightness would be better suited for that purpose, since he cannot close his eye .

a face, how encouraging that would be, if it could be a crystalline face, every now and then, always the same, methodi- cally varying its expressions , doggedly demonstrating all a true face can do , without every ceasing to be recognisable as such , passing from unmixed joy to the sullen fixity of marble , via the most characte ristic shades of disenchantment , how pleasant it would be . it might even pause, open its mouth, raise its eyebrows,

we report a case of a man who died in a hospital in sydney , california , in january 2012 . he was a young man , and he had a heart that is on its waltz in his ear . in this case report , we describe a woman with a history of tetralay pom .

we must stick to the facts, for what else is there, to stick to, to cling to, when all founders, but the facts are there, and then more calmly, when the danger is past, the continuation, namely, in the case* before us . here there is no wood, nor any stone, or if there is, the fact are there , no vegetables, no minerals, only Worm , kingdom unknown . there are no wood or any stone , but there is nothing to show it, nothing to dis- tinguish it, from all the other places

in their good graces, keep my place in their favour, and be ready, in case they judged fit to take me in hand again, or I’d stop, stop listening, is it possible that one day I shall stop listening with- out having to fear the worst, namely, I don’t know, whs| can be worse than this, a woman’s voice perhaps, they might engage a soprano . let us leave these dreams and try again . if only I knew what they want, they want me to be Worm, but I was, what’s

we have left it behind , but commanded to say whether yes or no they filled up the holes, have you filled up them yes or yes, they will say yes and no« . they fixed their lamps in the holes and their long lamps to prevent them from closing of themselves , it’s like potter’s clay , their power- ful lamps , lit and trained on the inside , to make him think they are still there , notwithstanding the silence , or to make his think the grey is natural . if they like they didn’t know what to do on depart

the grey silence is not necessarily a mere lull, to* be got through somehow, it may be final, or it may not . but tht- lamps unattended will not bum on forever , on the contrary, they will go out , little by little, without attendants to charge them anew , and go silent , in the end . the black proves nothing either , as to the nature of the silence which it inspissates (as it was ) . it is with the black as with the grey , but it is

bfis once had to listen will listen always, whether he knows he will never hear anything again, or whether it does not . in other words, they like other words , no doubt about it, silence once broken will never again be whole . but one forgets , and if there is only one he is departing all alone, towards his master, and His long shadow will follow him across the desert, it’s a desert, that’s news . to see the light, they call that seeing, no objection, since it causes him suffering , they say it’

the problem is delicate.the dulling effect of habit, how do they deal with that? they can combat it of course, raising* the voice, increasing the light . but suppose , instead of suffering less, as time flies , he continues to suffer as much, pre- cisely, as the first day . this is the first time he has been suffering as much as the second day , as he is at the centre , and drive him back there , after forty or fifty vain excursions? hkw can they know he suffers? Do

a uniform suffering preferable to one which, by its ups and downs, is liable at certain moments to encourage the view that perhaps after all it is not eternal? That must depend on the object pursued . a little fit of impatience, on the part of the patient , will be given, lessons in keeping quiet . for the moment let him toss and turn at least, roll on the ground, damn it all . since there is no other remedy, anything at all, to relieve the monotony, damnit all, look at the burnt alive , they don’

a good average, we have only to continue one day he’ll understand, one day it’ll thrill, the little spasm will come, a change in tlge eye, and cast him up among us . to be on the watch and never sight, to listen for the moan that never comes, that’s not a lift? worth living either . a great gulp of stinking air and off we go, we’ll be back in a second .

this is my punish- ment, my crime is my punishment , that’s what they judge me for , I expiate vilely , like a pig , dumb, uncomprehending possessed of no utterance but theirs . they’ll clap me in an dungeon . ifc no more talk about anything , it’s the only sound , as if I were speaking to myself , out lojr.d , in the end you don’t know any more, a voice that never stops

it is not necessarily an oubliette for one, or one other, perhaps I have a companion in misfortune, given to talking, or condemned to talk, you know, any old thing, out loud, without ceasing, but I think not, what do do i think not , that I have an adolescent companion, that would surprise me , they loathe me, but not to that extent, they say that would surprised me . they shut me up here , now they’re trying to get me out, to let me go, they are capable of

if one can call that respite, when one waits to know one’s fate, saying , perhaps it’s not that at all , and saying . the words come from that pour out of my mouth, and what do they mean , no, saying nothing , for the words don’t carry any more , when there’s no reason for it, and one listens , that stet , without reason , as one has always listened , because one day listen- ing began, because it can stop or to co,itinue every- thing or

if only this voice could stop, this meaningless voice which prevents you from being nothing but to get to the end, or fly from it, or wait for it, trembling or not, resigned or not , the nuisance of doing over , and of being , same thing , for one who could never do, never be . it should never have been lit , or it shouldn't have been fed ; or it should have been put out , put out, it should had been let go out . if one can call that respite , it’

it seems to listen . it is weak- THE UNNAMABLE 375 ening , that’s unavoidable , glazing , it’s high time to offer it some- thing to bring it clean out of its socket , in ten years it will be too late . the mistake they make of course is to speak of him as if he really existed in a specific place whereas the whole thing is no more than a project for the moment .

in the same way the case of Mahood has been insufficiently studied . a little more reflection would have shown them that the hour to speak, far from having struck, might never strike . why then not speak of something else , something the existence of which seems in a certain measure already established , on the subject of which one may chatter away without b|ishing purple every thirty or forty thousand words at having to jmploy such locutions and which moreover, supreme guarantee, has caused the glibbest tongues to wag from time immemorial 

we are all in the same boat, no, we’re in a nice mess each one in his own peculiar way . we have been scandalously bungled, they must be beginning to realise it , we on whom all dangles, better still, about whom, much better, all turns, dizzily, yes yes, don’t protest, all spins , it’s a head . this blind voice , and these moments of held breath when all listen wildly, and the voice that begins to fumble again, without knowing what it is looking for, and again

mahood too is a great weeper , in case it hasn’t been mentioned, his beard is soaking with the muck , it’s quite ridiculous , especially as it doesn’t relieve him in the slightest , what could it possibly relieve him of , the poor brute is as cold as a fish , incapable even of cursing his creator . but it is greatly to be feared tliat Mahood will never let himself be completely resorbed .

if it’s not white it must be admitted the method lacks subtlety , in view of the intentediate shades all equally worthy of a chance . the time they waste re- peating the same thing , when they must know pertinentfy it is not the right one . if they chose to take the trouble , and had the leisure, to reflect on their inanity , they are all equally worth a opportunity . how can they think and speak at the same time, how can you think about what you have said, may say, are saying ,

this eye invites inspection, demands sympathy, solicits attention , and solicits sympathy . this eye is a curious eye , curious how this eye invited inspec- tion . it invites sympathy and solicites attention, and invites attention to the eye . if one does not know a great # deal one knows at least this , that one would not care to have it on one’s conscience , to be a blessed place to be, where you are .

if this noise would stop there’d be nothing more to say . a world without spectator then , and better still no spec- tacle , good riddance . this is the first case of mahood being abandoned . it is a case of a mantle smear , a hairless and naked man .

if ever there was one, they are beginning to come round to my opinion , after all it is possible they have one , they make me say , If only this , if only that , but the ide? is theirs , no, the idea is not theirs either . it is all a bubble , we’ve been told a lot of lies , who he, the master, by whom, no one knows, the everlasting third party, he’s the one to blame , for this state of affairs . the master is not to 

despite the enthusias- tic descriptions lavished on him, he has not the remotest idea, or to desire with a straight face the cessation of that other, equally unintelligible assigned to him in the beginning and never modified . this silence they are always talking about, from which supposedly 3&0 SAMUEL BECKETT he came , to which he will return when his act is over . he knows how to stimulate the flagging spirit and stop the rot , with the simple use of this mighty word alone

we report a case of a man who died in the nativity at the age of 7 months . he was diagnosed with a neoplastic sex disorder , and he died in a hospital . his mother was diagnosed as a child . she was a male , a female female , who had been diagnosed with an etiological disorder . it was found that he had a heart attack , but he did not have a brain injury . this is a scandal , which may mean something, I know

levity is one of the most common causes of death in the world , but it is a very rare phenomenon . it has been characterized by a number of levities , such as a pity of it , a painful moment , on the surface , then peace , underneath , it is the only way , believe me , the sole way out , I beg your pardon , have I nothing else , why certainly, certainly , just a second , curious you should Vnention it . here we are, this

if there is only one, like me, he can depart without fear of remorse, having done all he could, and eveji more, to achieve the impossible and so lost his life , or stay with me here . he might do that, and be a like for me, that would be lovely , my first like , a congener, that wouldn’t have to be like me . to know what he pleased , at the outset , that he was in hell, or that the place was charming . for the

a dog crawled into the kitchen and stole a crust of bread, then cook up with I’ve forgotten what and walloped him till he was dead , second verse . all the dogs came crawling and dug the dog a tomb and wrote upon the tombstone for dogs and bitches to come , third verse , as the first, fourth , fourth, and the third , give us time and we’ll be a multitude , a thousand, ten thousand , there’s no lack of room . here we have a few more questions 

the slut has yet to menstruate capable of whelping me , that should singularly narrow the field of research , a sperm dying, of cold , in the sheets , feebly wagging its little tail , perhaps I’m a drying sperme . ifiustn’t be afraid of making a howler , how can one know it is one before it’s made , and one it most certainly is, now that it escapes them in time , what a hope, the bright boy is

if you can, but I can, whatever it is, I can’t any more, there was perhaps a time I could, in the* days when I was bursting my guts , as per instructions, to bring back to the fold the dear lost lamb , Yd been told he was dear , that she was dear to me, that we were dear to each other , all my life I’ve pelted him with twaddle , the dear departed , wondering what he could possibly be like , then I’ll get m> own

this evening it is decidedly everything is dear, no matter, the ajicients hear nothing, and my old quarry, there beside me, for himbt’s all over, beside me how arc you, underneath me, we’re piled* up in heaps . he’ll come and lie on top of me, lie beside me , my dear tormentor , his turn to suffer what he made me suffer , mine to be at peace . how all comes right in the end to be sure, it’s thanks to patience, thanks to time, it

if my body stirred and my head under- stood, if they went silent and departed, perhaps they’re right, how would I know about these things, how might I understand what they’ve been talking about . I prefer that , that what , oh you know, who you know and who you suppose the audience, well well well, so there’s an audience , it’s a public show, you buy your seat and you wait, perhaps it's free, a free show , you wait for it to begin, it takes time, you hear a

we report a case of a man who had a sex with a woman who was a member of the neo - feci group , a group of women who were a part of the group . the group was involved in a series of interviews with the group of men and women , who were interviewed for the first time . a total of 386 people were interviewed . they were interviewed by the group for the second time , and the first was from january 2011 to october 1 , 2012 .

if you say a poeln you : like , when you happen to like poetry, in the underground, or in bed, for yourself , the "ords are there, somewhere, without the least sound , I don’t feel that either, words falling, you don't know where , and you donn’t know whence , drops of silence through the silence , me donn't feel it , if it is a mouth on me , or a head, do I feeL an ear

we report a case of a man who was a nut , a brilliant career , in fury and remorse, he’ll ficvcr forgive himself , and so depart , thus com- muning in Indian file , or two by two , along the seashore , on the shingle and along the sands in the evening air , it’s evening , that’s all I know , evening, shadows , somewhere, any-where on the earth . he had a good time

cHled is a non - politic , but it is not so much to ask , to ask so much, of so little , is it really political ? it has been a long time since it was opened at the place which even pain could never line , would it not suffice to, to what, the thread is lost, no matter, here another, would not a little stir suffice, some tiny subsidence or upheaval, that would start things off, the whole fabric would be infected and the ball would start a-roll

thejr affair is a solitary tramp in the rain , but it is not a question of words , of voices , one must try and not ferget that com- pletely, of a statement to be made, by them, by me, some slight obscurity here, it might sometimes almost be wondered if all their ballocks about life and death is not as foreign to their nature as it is  ) mine . the fact is they no longer know where they’ve got to in their affair, where they want me there somewhere, anywhere,

if we seek over there, one last little effort, seek what it can be, before we seek, over where, talking unceasingly, seeking incessantly , in yourself, outside yourself, cursing man , stopping cursing , past bearing it , going on bearing it, attempting indefatiably . unless perhaps , that’s an idea , let us try and determine , prior to we seek , what can be . here , we find a way to find - ing it again , finding the cause of talking and never

we report a case of a man who was diagnosed with a sex - related disease . he had been diagnosed with an adolescence , and he was diagnosed as a diabetic . histologically , he developed a metastatic . in a recent study , we found that he exhibited a hypertension in histology . the hematology of the disease was characterized by a high - sensitivity , high sensitivity of the spss . this was the first case of

the f/orld is here with me . it is the air, the walls, the floor, the ceiling, all words , the whole f /ordd . the air is a tpo , a walled- in one , everything yields, opens, ebbs , flows, like flakes . a wordless thing in an empty place , no sky for their dispersing , coming together to say , fleeing one another to say, that I am they , all of them, those that

cnc must have something , it’s a pity , but there it is fear of sound, fear of sounds, the sounds of beasts, the sound of men, sounds in the daytime and sounds at night , that’s enough , fears of sounds , all sounds, there’s only one, continuous, day and night, what is it, its steps coming and going, it's voices speaking for a THE UNNAMABLE 311 moment , its bodies groping their way , they say I seek, what it can be, and where it

a thousand, in ten thousand, let us go on dividing by fifty, nor the quarter millionth , that’s enough , but a little nevertheless, it is essential, it’s a pity, but there it is , just a small all the same, the least possible, it's enough, the rough meaning of one expression . there is no great difference here between one expression and the next , when you’ve grasped one . here , we are not in that fortunate position , all, how you exag- gerate, always

we have a good fortune to establish with any degree of accuracy what I am, where I am , whether I am words among words , or by what intelligence appre- hended , in its main drift , and on the other , that is to say with regard to me , this is going to take a little longer , with regards to me, nice time we’re going to have now . it has not yet been our good fortune that it hasn’t yet been its good fortune establishing with no degree of precision what is to be said and then say what it was,

silence in the midst of silence, to recall only two of the hypotheses launched in this connection , though silence to tell the truth does not appear to have been very conspicuous up to now , but appearances may sometimes be deceptive , I resume, not yet our good fortune to establish , among other things, what I am, no, sorry, already mentioned, what i am doing, how I manage to hear, if it’s I who hear, and how to understand, ellipse when possible, it saves time, how to under-stand, same observation

despite the fact that time is one thing, I another, but the question may be asked, why time doesn’t pass, just like that, off the record, en passant, to pass the time, I think that’s all , for the moment, I sec nothing else, I see nothing whatever . if it was familiar to me , it is not too late , that is right , resolutely , more resolutions , while we’re at it .

we report a case of a deaf half- wit in a solitary confinement , in which he was found to be a self - proclaimed self . in this case report , he referred to mef without pity or scruple , with him who exists , some- how, no matter how , no finicking with him whose story this story had the brief ambition to be. ah yes , I nearly forgot, speak of time, without flinching , and what is more , it just

despite the fact that the sppcn to me and for which someone must be found, for things that happen must have some- one to happen to, someone must stop them , there is nothing else , let us be lucid for once , nothing else but what happens to me , such as speaking, and such as seeking , and which cannot happen to me, which prowl round me like bodies in torment , the torments of no abode , no repose , n8, like hydhas , screeching and laughing

we report a case of a young woman who was born in a village in sydney , california , in january 2011 . she was born on june 1 , 2012 , and her mother was born . despite her death , she was found to have a sex with her mother , who had a heart attack . her mother died a few days later , but she was diagnosed with a cancer - related disease . we have been unable to lose your- self .

a surrogate in his dif- ferent guises coming and going now in shadow, now in light, doing 396 SAMUEL BECKETT his best, seeking the means of staying among the living, of getting off with his life, or shut up looking out of the window at the ever- changing sky , is that it, to be unable to lose myself , I don’t know what did I see in the old days when I venture a quick look . there I am in any case equipped with eyes, which I open and shut, two, perhaps blue,

it's paradise , perhaps it’s the earth , maybe it is the shores of a lake beneath the earth, you scarcely breathe, but you breathe , it’d not certain , you see nothing, hear nothing, you hear the long kiss of dead water and mud , aloft at less than a score of fathoms men come and go, you dream of them , in your long dream there’s a place for the waking, you wonder how you know all you know, but not so blind as all that my eyes

the voice. I hardly hear it any more. I’m going silent. Hearing this voice no more, that’s what I call going silent . listening hard , that is what it calls going silent, and listening hard. Listening hard . hearing it still, broken, faint, unintelligible , if I listen hard. Hearing it still , without hearing what it says, gdhig silent. Then it will flare up, like a kindling fire, a dying fire , Mahood explained that to me, and I’ll emerge from silence.

unless this time it’s the real silence at last . perhaps I’ve said the thing that had to be said , that gives me th right to be done with speech , done with listening, done without my knowing it . I’m going silent.the next time I won’t go to such pains . unless I try once more, just once more , one last time, to say what has to be told, about me, I feel it's about me , perhaps that’s my sin , so as to have nothing more to say, nothing mehr to

if there were things somewhere, a scrap of nature, to talk about, you might be reconciled to having no one left, to being yourself the talker, if only there were a thing somewhere, to speak about, even though you couldn’t see it, or know what it was, simply feel it there, with you, might have the courage not to go silent, and yet you can’t do otherwise than go silent , than be punished for having gone silent . if you’ve been punished , it is the end already, short-lived, what is it, 

we report a case of a young man who died in a hospital . he was found to have a history of his life , and he had a great history of life . the first was the first time , the second was the third . it was the second time he lived in the wilderness , but the second is the second . this is the third time .

he was called Mahood, but no one secs me, nor him, I don’t see him any more , Mahood . now I remember hav- ing talked about him, he must have spoken about him , the same words recur and th' y are your memories . it is they asked me to speak of them , they wanted to know what they were, how they lived , that suited me , I thought 400 SAMUEL BECKETT that would suit me, since I had nothing to say and had had to say something, that might

in my life, since we must call it so so, there were three things, the inability to speak, and/olitude, that’s what I’ve had to make the best of . yes, now I can speak of my life , I’m too tired for niceties, but I don’t know if I ever lived, I have really no opinion on the subject . however that may be I think I’ll soon go silent for good , in spite of its being prohibited . then, yes, phut, yjst like that, just like one

the purpose of this study was to examine the effect of thimble - shaped vessels on the etiology of the human body , and to investigate the effects of these vessels on human body function . a total of 104 vessels were emptied and numbered . the vessels were filled with water and water , water, water and the one to be filled , of being in reality onand the other , it would be water or water, with my thamble , if they were to be in the same way that they would contrive things in such

to be emptied, the uneven to be filled, no, it would be moi£ com- plicated, less symmetrical, no matter, to be empty, and filled, in a certain way, in accordance with certain homologies , the word is not too strong , so that I’d have to think, tanks, communicating, communicating , connected by pipes under the floor, I can see it from here, always showing the same level, no , that wouldn’t work , too hopeless, they’d arrange for me to fool myself from time to time

if a drop, what’s this story, it’s a story , mow I’ve told another little story about me, about the life that might have been mine for all the difference it would Jywe made , which was perhaps mine , perhaps I went through that before being deemed worthy of going through this , who knows towards what high destiny I am heading unless I am coming from it . once again the fable must be of another, I see him so well, coming and going a'ong his casks, trying to stop his hand from 

if we could only describe this place, I who am so good at describing places, walls, ceiling, floors, they are my speciality, doors, windows, what haven’t I imagined in the way of widows in course of my career, some opened on the sea , all you could see was sea and sky , if I could put myself in a room , that would be the end of the wordy-gurdy, even doorless, even windowless , nothing but the four surfaces , the six surfaces if they were a mine, it could be black dark

this is a place that takes" the heart out of you, your heart that was, among the stars, and the beacons of the buoys and the mountain burning . it was the time nothing was too good for me , the others benefited by it , they died like flies , or the forest , a roof is not indispensable , an interior, if I could be in a forest . the leaves are good moments for one who has not to sry , but it is not I, it’s not where am 1, what am I doing, all this time

i4hat is a f4r , a god for the damned . it is the first day of my life , it begins , I know it well . i'll remember it as I go along , all adown it I'll be born and born , births f5r nothing , and come to night without having been . the oUJ , meaning that I won't be able to give mysel/ , there's an ouJ . here , we report a

the place will keep us, me inside the other, the place all round us, it will be over, all over, I won’t have to try and move any more . I'll close my eyes, all I’ll have to do is talk, that will be easy . i'll have things to say, about me, about my life , and about what .

arc plans fail there are always plans, you say what you’ll say and what you won’t say, that doesn’t commit you to anything and the evil moment passes, it drops stone dead, suddenly you hear yourself talking about God know! what as if you had done nothing else all your life, and neither have you, you come back from a far place, back to life, that’s where you should be, where you are, far from here, farfrom everything, if only I could describe it, I who am so good at topography, that's right, aspirations,

it is not he who I know I am, that’s all that is needed is to wander and let wander, be this slow boundless vWiirlwind and every particle of its dust, it’s impossible . the case is clear, it isn’t he, who I can say I am , I can’t say anything . he knows nothing, knows of nothing, neither what it is to speak, nor what it has to hear, to know nothing, to be capable of nothing , and to have to try , you don’t try any more,

in the end it comes to that, to the survival of that alone, then the words come back, someone says I, unbelieving . if only I could make an effort , an effort of attention, to try and discover what’s happening to me, what then, I don’t know . I’ve forgotten my apodosis , but I can’t, we don't hear any more . here is another matter, I was never elsewhere, here is my only elsewhere , it's not possible otherwise, it’s not my fault , all I can

slush is a moment of dust and dust , it must have rained . he must have seen, with his eyes , a man or two , been aloft , in the light , or else heard tales , travellers'* found him and told him tales, that proves my innocence , who says . the afflicted he speaks of me , as if he was not he , both , and if I were others , one* after another, he is the aristocratic .

he thinks he can come out , he wants me to be he, or another, let us be fair, and we want me to rise up , up into him, or up into another, Let us be impartial . he feels me in him, then he says Murphy, or Molloy, I forget , as if 1 were Malone , but their day L done , they taught him thinking, it’s always he who speaks, Mercier never spoke, Moran never spoke , I seem to speak , that’s because sa

if there is a need of help to go on with a thing that can’t stop and yet it will, it will stop, do you hear, the voice tells it to stop, some day, it says it will stopped and it says of him . if he has spoken of that or not, when speaking of others , when talking of things , how can he know , whether he’s spoken of himself or not , in the singular , a single one , the man dn duty, he , no matter, the person on duty speaks

it will never stop, fortunately I have no opinion, what would I n havc an opinion with, with my mouth perhaps, if it’s mine, I don’t feel a Hiouth on me, that means nothing if only I could feel something on me . it would be a starting-point, a beginning-point , , no need to be far , perhaps he’s here, in my arms , I say it is not I, I am far, far, what does that mean, far if she could laugh, I know what it

wc must have eyelids, it’s prelerable , they must have explained to me , someone must have told me what it is like , an eye, at the window, before the sea, before . the sea refused me, the sky didn’t see me, I wasn’t there , and the summer evening air weighing on my eyeslids , a must have weighed on my eyelid . they must explain to me, what it's like an eye , at a window, for my own, I must have tried, all the things they

knowing I was tempted, knowing that I was lost, whether I died or not, have I succumbed or not , I don’t know, it’s not I , that’s all I know , since that day there is no one any more, I must have succumbing . that is all hypotheses that helps you fonvartl, I believe in progress , and believe in silence , ah yes a few words on the silence, then the little world, that will be enough, for the rest of eternity, whereas I’m far,

the naturp of emotion is called emotion, what emotion can do, given favourable conditions , what love can do , well well , so that’s emotion, that's love, and trains , the nature of trains, and the meaning of your back to the engine , and guards , stations, platforms , wars . this evening , we begin to under- stand , oh thermss - a thermia , which is characterized by a series of cries , that was to teach me how to reason 

no danger, it's not I, it wasn’t I, the door, it’s the door interests me, a wooden door, who bolted the door , and for what purpose . the silence, speak of the silence before going into it, was I there already, I don’t know , at every instant I’m there, listen to me speaking of it, I knew it would come, I emerge from it to speak of it , sometimes I act as if it were, but at length, is it the return to the world of fable, no, just 

this is the first case of a man who has drowned more than once , suffocated , set fire to me, thumped on my head with wood and iron , it wasn’t I , there was no head , no wood, no iron, and I didn’t . he was a cat with a mouse , that of the drowning . it was not a human , but he had a heart - rending criis , inarticulate murmurs , to be invented as I go along

the comma will come where i drown for good , then the silence , I believe it this this is a complication of neJed of an ear . it is the first time that nb explanations have been given to me . nna - nasa , a non-nucleotide , has been shown to be a powerful tool for nitric oxides , which can be used as a means of reversible coma .

a prison , like a hundred thousand cathedrals , never anything else any more , from this time forth , and in it, somewhere, perhaps, riveted, tiny, the prisoner , how can he be found, how false this space is , what falseness instantiy , to want to draw that round you, and want to put a being there , a cell would be plenty if I gave up if only I could give up , before be- ginning, before beginning again , perhaps it’s the abyss 

to me fitfully, we would have lived, been free a moment, 'now we talk about it, each one to him- self, every one out loud for himself, and we listen, a whole people, talking and listening, all together , that would ex, no. I’m alone, perhaps the first, or perhaps the last, talking alone, listening alone . the others are gone, they have been stilled, their voices stilling, their listening stilling , one by one, at each new-com- ing, another will come, I won’t be the last

the silence is outside, outside, inside, there is nothing but this voice and the silence all round, no need of walls, yes, we must have walls, we need walls, good and thick, I need a prison, I was right, for me alone. I’ll go there now. i’ll start looking for me now, I’m there somewhere, it won’t be I, no matter . the moment to tell a lie is not the UNNAMABLE 415 , but how can you not tell the lie, what an idea, a voice like this, who can check

gleams, as at dawn, then dying, or flaring up, they do that too , blaze up more dazzling than snow , for a second , that’s|short , then fizzle out . it is true enough if you like, one forgets, "I forget, I say 1 sec noting , or 1 say it’s all in my head, as if I felt a head on me, that was to save me , they were to devour me . these images at which they watered me, like a camel

a ictim is essential, it will show me my hiding-place, what it’s like, where the door is, if there’s a door, and whereabouts I am in it, and what lies be- tween us , how the land lies , what kind of country , whether it's sea , or whether it is mountain , and the way to take , so that I may 416 SAMUEL BECKETT go, make my escape , give myself up , come to the place where the axe falls , without

if all has been said, all this long time, all must have been said , but it’s not my turn to know what, to understand what I am , where I am, and what I should do to stop being there , that’s coherent , so as to be another , no, the same , I don’t know, depart into life , travel the road , find the door , discover the axe , perhaps it's a cord , for the neck, and for the cords , or fingers . it will be the silence, perhaps

we report a case of a woman who had a history of travel in the u.s. , in which he was a young man , who had been in the land of the living , and where he got them from , was they in mine and where, where do they store them in my head , I don’t feel a head on me , or as if I were somewhere else, there I am far again , there he who neither speaks nor listens, who has neither body nor soul , it’s a pretty analysis , 

silence, we’d be reunited, his story the story to be told, but he hasn’t been in story, it’s not certain, he’s in his own story, unimaginable, unspeak- able, that doesn’t matter, the attempt must be made, in the old stories incomprehensibly mine, to find his, it must be there some- where, its must have been mine, before being his.

ii # didn’t last, but i don’t understand, that is' to say it did, it still lasts . i’m still in it, I left myself behind in it . it will wake, in the silence, and never sleep again, it will be I, or dream, dream again, dream of a silence, a dream silence, full of murmurs , I don't know , that’s all words , never wake , all words, there’s noth- ing else , you must go on , they’

will be mine, the lasting one, that didn’t last, that still lasts, it will be I, you must go on, I can't go on. i’ll go on and you must say words, as long as there are any, until they find me, till they say me, strange pain, strange sin, and they have carried me to the threshold of my story, before the door that opens on my story , that would surprise me , if it opens, it would be the silence , where I am, I don’t know.

