 Molloy is in his mother's room and sleeps in her bed and piss and shit in her pot . He says he doesn't know how he got there thanks to a man who comes every week . Sometimes I tell myself it’s impossible I could ever have helped anyone .

 To me he wore a cocked hat. I remember being struck by it, as I wouldn’t have been for example by a cap or by a bowler . I watched him recede, overtaken by his anxiety, at least MOLLO Y 11 by an anxiety which was not necessarily his . A little dog followed him, a pomeranian I think, but I don't think so . Perhaps he had come from afar, from the other end of the island even, and was approaching the town for the first time or returning to it after a long absence .

 SAMUEL BECKETT wrote about the craving for a fellow . But perhaps I shall see them again. But shall I be able to recognise them?

 Dan was my father’s name perhaps, perhaps, yes, perhaps she took me for my father . I called her Mag because for me, without my knowing' why the letter g abolished the syllable Ma . I forgive her for having jostled me a little in the first months . And I give her credit for not having done it again, thanks to me, or for having stopped in time .

 SAMUEL BECKETT was taken to a guardroom and told to sit down . The room was full of malefactors, policemen, lawyers, priests and journalists . But suddenly a woman rose up before him, a big fat woman dressed in black, or rather in mauve . She was holding out to me, on an odd saucer, a mug full of a greyish concoction which must have been green tea .

 To apply the letter of the law to a creature like me is not an easy matter, but reason is against it . To him who has nothing it is forbidden not to relish filth . The declining sun fell full on the white wall of the barracks. It was like being in China .

 There is no denying it, any longer, it is not you who are dead, but all the others . So you get up and go to your mother, who thinks she is alive . But now I shall have to get myself out of this ditch . How joyfully f would vanish there, sinking deeper and deeper under the rains .

 All roads were right for me, a wrong road was an event, for me . But when I was on my way to my mother only one road was right, the one that led to her, for all did not lead to her . There could be no things but nameless things, no names but thing- less names .

 The house where Sophie — no, I can’t call her that any more . I’ll try calling her Lousse, without the Mrs — the house where Lousse lived •was not far away . It was because I knew I was there that I had my bellyful, a mile more to %o .

 In the end it was magic that had the honour of my ruins, and still today, when I walk there, I find its vestiges . The voice is of a world collapsing endlessly, a frozen world, under a faint untroubled sky .

 The moon seen from Lousse’s house, far from being full, as it had appeared to me, was in fact merely entering on its first quarter, or else that, the moon seen on the night before, was merely entering its first half . And it came back also to my mind, as sleep stole over it again, that my nights were moonless and the moon foreign, to my nights . The next day I demanded my clothes . The valet went to find out they had been burnt .

 SAMUEL BECKETT lost a knife in a burst of irritation, but resolved to declare loudly that a knife was missing . He soon received a very fine vegetable knife, so-called stainless, but it didn’t take me long to stain it, and which opened and shut into the bargain, unlike all the vegetable knives he had ever known .

 The words engraved themselves for ever on my memory, perhaps because V understood them at once, a thing I didn’t often do . Not that I was hard of hearing, for I had quite a sensitive ear, and sounds unencumbered with precise mean- ing registered perhaps better by me than by most . Of nature too, and of the works of men, I reacted in my own way and without desire of enlightenment .

 SAMUEL BECKETT usually attributed to heavy eaters, usually eat ponderously and with method, that follows from the notion of heavy eating . But the little I did eat I devoured with a voracity . I would engulf five or six mugs of beer with one swig then drink nothing for a week .

 Lousse was a woman of extraor-dinary flatness, physically speaking of course, to such a point that I am still wondering this evening, in the comparative silence of my last abode, if she was not a man rather or at least an androgyne . She had a hole between her legs, oh not the bunghole I had always imagined, but a slit, and in this I put, or rather she put, my so-called virile member, not without difficulty . I toiled and moiled until I discharged or gave up trying or was begged by her to stop .

 SAMUEL BECKETT set off towards the sun, why not, the wind having fallen. springing on them through the air . And she did not try and hold me back but she sat down on her dog's grave .

 SAMUEL BECKBTT had stolen from Lousse a little silver, oh nothing much, massive teaspoons for the most part . But for a certain time I think it inspired me with a kind of veneration, for there was no doubt in my mind that it was not an object of virtue, but that it had a most specific function always to be hidden .

 Molloy 67 is haunted by memories of his legs and feet . Says he can't forget them as he can his arms, which are sound and well .

 SAMUEL BECKETT tried to transfer stones four by four, instead of one by one, during the sucking . But this was only a makeshift makeshift that could not long content a man like me . I always ran the same risk, for no matter how I caused the stones to cir- culate .

 I had never met with, in this sense, long remained obscure . Finally I seemed to grasp that this word trim could not here mean anything else, anything better, than the distribution of the sixteen stones in four groups of four, one group in each pocket .

 The black speck I was, in the great pale stretch of sand, who could wish it harm? Some came near, to see what it was, whether it wasn’t something of value from a wreck, washed up by the storm . But when they saw the jetsam was alive, decently if wretchedly clothed, they turned away .

 The thought of suicide had little hold on me, I thought 1 did, but I see I don't . The idea of strangulation in particular, however tempt- ing, I always overcame, after a short struggle . We underestimate this little hole, it seems to me, we call it the arse-hole and affect to despise it .

 82 SAMUEL BECKETT has a presentiment that the day will come for me to say what is left of all I had . But I must wait, to be sure there is nothing more I can acquire, or lose, or throw away . Then I can say, without fear of error, what's left, in the end, of my possessions, for it will be the end .

 Samuel Beckett lived in the forest, not all forest, but plains, mountains and sea, and some towns and villages . He says he looked forward to getting out of the forest some day . But I could not, stay . physically nothing could have been easier, but I was not purely physical, I lacked something .

 All my life, I think I had been going to my mother, with the purpose of establishing our relations on a less precarious footing . When I was with her, and I often succeeded, I left her without having done anything . And when I was no longer with her I was again on my way to her, hoping to do better the next time .

 Moran, Moran, Jacques. That is the name I am known by . The day came when the forest ended and I saw the light, the light of the plain, exactly as I had foreseen .

 Samuel Beckett was a neighbour but had no patience with people who took liberty to disturb him . He was dressed in his heavy, sombre Sunday best, and at this my displeasure knew no bounds . Peeping and prying were part of my profession . I decided to ask for a private communion, in the course of the afternoon . I would go withoi.; lunch of all Sundays! When I so needed it! To buck me up!

 Moran sat in his arm-chair dreaming of his breed’s infirmities and the singularities of those about him . Verger Joly had a list of the faithful and that, from his place beside the font, he ticked us off . Gaber had gone without his beer . Martha flung herself at her pots and pans, dumb with anger . Irish stew was a nourishing and economical dish, if a little indigestible .

 Samuel Beckett's hen has broken the neck of her femur, he said . He added that it was bound to happen . Py said his son was born with feols like weeping .

 If I had been my son I would have left me long ago . I had not yet told her we were leaving. I did not wholly trust her. It was im- portant to leave her in the dark . She would have served us dinner in any case, as she did every day. But to tell her we would dine at home, what a blunder . Gaber understood nothing about the messages he carried . He used a code incomprehensible to all but himself .

 Martha insisted, before entering my service, that I permit her to keep her rocking-chair in the kitchen . Martha was late to bed and early to rise, it was in the . kitchen that she benefited by it most . The sight of the sight went straight to my heart, but nevertheless I did my duty .

 Sorrow does more harm when dumb, to my mind . I decided to make the most of them . I took off my coat and shoes, opened my trousers and got in between the sheets . It is lying down in the warmth, in the gloom, that I best pierce the outer turmoil's veil .

 The Molloy I brought to light was certainly not the true denizen of my dark places, for it was not his hour . But so far as the essen- tial features were concerned, I was easy in my mind, the like- ness was there .

 Have you shat, my child, I said gently, gently . I gave him an enema, with salt water . I let out a bellow which must have been heard by the Eisner sisters . Martha watched me in silence, lolling in her rocking-chair . Martha said she wanted to go to bed, but she was going to bed . She asked me how long I expected to be away. I advised her, in terms for me warm, to have a good rest while I was away .

 SAMUEL BECKETT was haunted by his son's death in the garden . He had no oven, but a simple gas-stove, in the kitchen, but out of service . He reflected with bitter satisfaction that if my son lay down and died by the wayside, it would not have none of Molloy .

 There is something about a father that discourages derision . Even grotesque he commands a certain respect . He is taken for a widower, the gaudiest colours are of no avail .

 SAMUEL BECKETT had to chain his son to me in such a way as to prevent him from ever shaking me off again . The least outing with him was torture, he lost his way so easily .

 SAMUEL BECKETT has no intention of relating the various adventures which befell us, me and my son, together and singly, before we came to the Molloy country . But that is not what stops me. All is tedious, in this relation that is forced upon me. But I shall conduct it in my own way, up to a point . It is not always easy to follow, in its reasonings and decrees, but I follow it none the less .

 The land did not lend itself to cultiva- tion . The pastures, in spite of the torrential rains, were exceedingly meagre and strewn with boulders . Only quitchweed grew in abundance and a curious bitter blue grass fatal to cows and horses . SAMUEL BECKETT never saw one of them again, subsequently, not a single one .

 The pain in question was not altogether new to me . For I had felt it before, in my bath- room, when giving my son his enema . But then it had only attacked me once and never recurred, till now . I lost interest in my patients, once I had finished with them . I don't know what became of him. I can see him still, looking after me .

 SAMUEL BECKETT told him to go to Hole, he said, fifteen miles away, and buy a bicycle . But there are millions of bicycles in Hole ! What kind of bicycle? He reflected . If you can’t find one second-hand? I said at last, what will you do? He did not know I was ill. Besides I was not ill. I could have counted the money I had left .

 The day seemed very long. I missed my son! I busied myself as best I could . I took advantage of being alone at last, with no other witness than God, to masturbate . I circled the shelter several times, thinking the exercise would benefit my knee .

 Moran: "I wished I could have been in the middle of a desert, under the midday sun, to look after him till he was only a dot, on the edge of the horizon . I stayed out in the air for a long time. at my reflection, then I washed my face and hands . I waited for my image to come back, I watched it as it trembled towards an ever increasing likeness . Much over fifty-five when he took off his hat, held it for a moment in his hand, then put it back on his head .

 SAMUEL BECKETT was hailed by a man on his way to the town of Teneriffe . He wore a thick navy-blue suit (double-breasted) of hideous cut and a pair of out-rageously wide black shoes . The fringed extremities of a dark muffler, seven feet long at least, wound several times round his neck, hung down his back .

 The day passed tranquilly, without incident . The only thing that re-lieved the monotony of this third day was a dog . I declare the foregoing to have been written with a firm and even satisfied hand, and a mind calmer than it has been for a long time .

 I tried to sit down on the MOLLOY 157 carrier. The foot of my stiff leg tried to sink into the ground, into the grave . I propped myself up on one of the bags. I was still too low. I added the other . Its bulges dug into my buttocks. I felt a sharp pain in my shin . I was all tangled up in the back wheel . Happily it was the sick leg . It was a blessing in disguise .

 SAMUEL BECKETT says he wanted his son to learn double-entry book-keeping . He also wanted him to keep an eye out, on his expeditions, for a second bicycle . And he always had a far greater sum in his pocket than was strictly necessary .

 Moran, Jacques, home, instanter. found it contained no more than fifteen shillings . I remained for several days in the place where my son had abandoned me, eating my last pro- visions . Moran re- mained all day stretched out in the shelter, vaguely regretting my son’s raincoat, and I crawled out in . the evening to have a good laugh at the lights of Bally . Gaber, Gaber's arrival put a stop to these frolics . Moran cried to him that I could not move, that I was sick and that I should have to be carried .

 SAMUEL BECKETT was ordered home in August, in September at the latest . Anyone else would have lain down in the snow, firmly re- solved never to rise again . I used to think that men would never get the better of me .

 The most striking feature of the dance was its very complicated figures, traced in flight . The outgoing bees danced too. It was no doubt their way of saying, I understand, or Don't worry about me .

 When it rained, when it snowed, then I found myself faced with the following dilemma . Was I to go on leaning on my umbrella and get drenched or was I to stop and take shelter under my open umbrella? I could have gone on, very slowly, using the um- brella no longer as a support, but as a shelter . But I was so accus- tomed, on the one hand to the perfect watertightness of my expen- sive umbrella, that the dilemma remained entire, for me . Sometimes I pushed on, leaning on the umbrella, getting drenched, but most often I

 He said it’s thanks to her I lost my infant boy, and kept his mamma . 'I have vowed to drag myself miserably to her niche, and thank her,' he said . 'A little hot tea,' he implored, without sugar or milk, to revive him .

 I shall soon be quite dead at last in spite of all . Perhaps next month . Then it will be the month of April or of May . I must be on my guard against throes, but I am less given to them now, since coming here . Does this mean I am freer now than I was? I do not know .

 SAMUEL BECKETT has lived in a kind of coma for the last six months . The case is reversed, the way well charted and little hope of coming to its end . Aesthetics are on my side, at least a certain kind of aesthetics .

 The man’s name is Saposcat, like his father's. Like his Christian name? I don’t know. He was not good at his lessons, neither could he see the use of them . He attended his classes with his mind elsewhere, or blank . He liked sums, but not the way they were taught . What he liked was the manipulation of concrete numbers .

 SAMUEL BECKETT has tried to reflect on the beginning of his story . There are things I do not understand, but nothing to signify I can go on . The first time an exasperated master threatened him with a cane, Sapo snatched it from his hand and threw it out of the window, which was closed, for it was winter . This was enough to justify his expulsion . But Sapo was not expelled, either then or later .

 The last thing that counts is the last, but it's the last that counts . Sapo’s phlegm, his silent ways, were not of a nature to please . In the midst of tumult, at school and at home, he remained motionless in his place .

 The search for myself is ended! I am buried in the world, I knew I would find my place there one day, the old world cloisters me, victorious . But I am not wise. For the wise thing now would be to let go, at this instant of happiness .

 The farm was in a hollow, flooded in winter and in summer burnt to a cinder . Lambert continued to expatiate, to his near and dear ones, on the specimen he had slaugh- tered . Lambert persisted in dreading for his pigs, though every passing year proved him wrong . Daylight and fresh air he dreaded for them too .

 "It was difficult for Sapo to glide unseen, even in the deep shadow of the trees that bordered the stream, even supposing him to have been capable of gliding, for his movements were rather those of one floundering in a quag . It was possible there was only one grey hen, even at feeding-time, which would have clinched the matter . Long line of tattered MALONE DIES 205 washing, swaying and drying in the sun .

 SAMUEL BECKETT writes about himself with the same pencil and in the same exercise book as about him . It is in order to know where I have got to, where he has got to . From now on I shall write on both sides of the page .

 Mr. Saposcat sold himself a fountain-pen, at a dis- count . He took off the long cardboard lid and showed the pen to his wife . He wrapped with expert hands the box in tissue-paper and slipped over it a narrow rubber band . Sapo saw the mule’s black corpse lying on its side, as was expected .

 Edmund Lambert would have gladly slept with his sister, the father too . But something held them back . Mrs. Lambert, the only member of the household who had no desire to sleep with anybody, saw it coming .

 SAMUEL BECKETT says he is a prey to hallucinations pure and simple . But the noises that I say rise up from below, the steps that he says come climbing towards me, do they really do so? I enjoy a kind of night and day, admittedly, often it is even pitch dark, but in rather a different way from the way to which I fancy I was accustomed .

 Sometimes sometimes it seems to me I am in a head and that these eight, no, six, these six planes that enclose me arc of solid bone . What mv stick lacks is a little prehensile proboscis like the nocturnal tapir’s without haven or craft or matter or understanding . I should really lose my pencil more often, it might do me good, I might be more cheerful .

 J. J. in me up 10 the elbow, but gentle, and as though sleeping . Soon it stirs, wakes, fondles, clutches and clutches, ransacks, ravages, avenging its failure to scatter me with one sweep .

 The coat and hat have this much in common, that whereas the coat is too big, the hat is too small . The material of this coat looks like felt, and the various dints and bulges inflicted upon it by the spasms and contortions of the body subsist long after the fit is past .

 There are not five hundred different kinds of passengers, for there are five hundred types of passengers . And so they hasten, the horse, the driver and the passenger, towards the appointed 232 SAMUEL BECKETT place .

 The best way to pass unnoticed is to lie down flat and not move, and so there I am, who always thought I would shrivel and shrivel, more and more, until in the end I could be almost buried in a casket, swelling . 'I simply believe I can say nothing that is not true, I mean that has not happened, it's not the same thing but no matter'

 'Without knowing exactly what his sin was he felt full well that living was not a sufficient atonement for it or that this atonement was in itself a sin, calling for more atonement . Macmann was often in fear and trembling that he suffered .

 The better late than never thanks to which true men, true links, can acknowledge error of their ways and hasten on to the next, was beyond the power of Macmann, to whom it some- seemed that he could grovel and wallow in his mortality until the end of time .

 Macmann was incapable of picking his steps and choosing where to put down his feet . Even had he been so he would have been so to no great purpose, so little was he master of his movements . But to pass on now to considerations of another order, it is perhaps not inappropriate to wish Macmann .

 I loved to finger and caress the hard shapely objects that were there in my deep pockets, it was my way of talking to them and reassuring them . And those of which I wearied, or which were ousted by new loves, I threw away . Or I buried them, or threw them into the sea, with all my strength as far as possible from the sea . Decidedly it will never have been given to me to finish anything, except perhaps breathing .

 SAMUEL BECKETT wonders if he should go on drawing up an inventory corresponding perhaps but faintly to the facts . If it was my hat I might put it on, that would remind me of the good old days, though I remember them sufficiently well . The pots do not seem to be mine, I simply have the use of them .

 I shall therefore die of old age pure and simple, glutted with days as in tjie days before the flood, on a full stomach . I wonder if I could contrive, wielding my stick like a punt-pole, to move my bed . I should never have thought of this, all the time I have been here . There is a providence for impotent old men, to the end .

 A woman's voice, extraordinarily shrill and unpleasant, was heard to say, Mann, his name is Macmann . Macmann obeyed, either because he was afraid of being punished if he refused or because he did not realize the seriousness of what he was doing . She was a little old woman, immoderately ill-favoured of both face and body . She wore by way of earrings two long ivory crucifixes which swayed wildly at the least movement of her head .

 Macmann was soon able to dispense with the explanations of his correspondent and understand all unaided . Not one day goes by that I do not give thanks to God, on my bended knees, for having found you, before I die . For shame, you dirty old man! It’s all these bones that makes it awkward, that I grant you . Moral, for us at last it is the season of love, let us make most of it, there are moral reasons .

 One day Macmann thrust Moll’s face away from his on the pretext of examining her ear rings . Then parted her jaws and pulled down her blobber-lip she discovered, breaking with its solitary fang the monotomy of the gums, a long yellow canine bared to the roots and carved, with the drill probably, to represent the celebrated sacrifice . This incident made a strong impression on Macmann and Moll rose with a bound in his affections .

 Lemuel gave the impression of being slightly more stupid than malevolent, and yet his malevolence was con- siderable . Physical pain, on the contrary, seemed to help him greafly . He showed Macmann his shin covered with bruises, scars and abrasions .

 The light has been queer ever since, oh I insinuate nothing, dim and at the same time radiant . The only thing you must never speak of is your happiness, I can think of nothing else for the moment .

 Mem, add to the questionnaire, Tf you happen to have a match try and light it . Lemuel went out alone, in silence, when he knew what he had to do, straight to the bush in which Macmann had made his lair . Macmann, weary of not being alone went away alone and back into his cell and remained there until Lemuel rejoined him .

 SAMUEL BECKETT: 'Would it not have been preferable to make this known to all concerned, so that the sense of guilt might precede and accompany it as well? Problem. Thanks to the white cloak with its blue butcher stripes no confusion was possible between the Macmanns and the Lemuels, Pats and Jacks .

 Macmann tore up this photograph and threw the bits in the air, one windy day . He liked best in this picture was the chair, the seat of which seemed to be made of straw . Lemuel slept on the bare boards and even ate his lesser meals, now at one place and now at another .

 Macmann was furious at having been shut up in his cell all morning and at a loss to understand what was wanted of him, had notably refused to . The director or his delegate, also present, said dreamily from time to time . The giant had thrown his arms round the Saxon's neck and hung there Lady Pedal hung there .

 Lemuel Lemuel is in charge, he raises his hatchet on which the blood will never dry, but not to hit anyone . Lemuel has shipped his oars, the oars trail in the water . Mac-Mann, my last, my possessions, I remember, he is there too, perhaps he sleeps .

 Hell itself, although eternal, dates from the revolt of Lucifer, Hell itself is eternal . It is permissible, in the light of this distant analogy, to think of myself as being here forever, but not as having been here forever . That I am not stone deaf is shown by the sounds that reach me .

 When did all this nonsense stop? And has it stopped? Is it merely a lull? I use it still, to scratch my arse with . He raises THE UNNAMABLE 301 his eyes and T feel the long imploring gaze, as if I could do some- thing for him . Another impression, no doubt equally false, he brings me presents and dare not give them . He does n<yt come often, I cannot be more precise, but regularly assuredly . His visit has never coincided with the transit of Malone .

 Matthew and I am the angel, I who came before the cross, before the sinning, came into the world, came here . But I am here, but I have never been elsewhere, however uncertain the future . I'm not heading for disaster, I am not heading anywhere, my adventures are over, my say said . And yet I greatly fear, since my speech can only be of me, that I am once more engaged in putting an end to both .

 SAMUEL BECKETT says he is round and hard, there must be reasons for that . But do I roll, in the manner of a true ball? Or am I in equilibrium somewhere, on one of my numberless poles? All the rest of the rest I renounce, including this ridiculous black .

 The last time that happened to me, or to the other who passes for me, I was not inattentive . And it seemed to me then that I heard a murmur telling of another and le«s unpleasant method of ending my troubles . It is his voice which has often, always, mingled with mine, and sometimes drowned it completely .

 It seems impossible, at this stage, that I should dispense with questions, as I promised myself I would . And perhaps before long, who knows, I shall light on the happy combination which will prevent them from ever arising again in my — let us not be over-nice — mind . For what I am doing is not being done without a minimum of mind .

 I want all to be well with you, do you hear me, that’s what he keeps on dinning at me . To which I reply, in a respectful attitude, I too, your Lordship. I say that to cheer him up. I am good-hearted, on the surface. No, we have no conversation, never a mum of his mouth to me . What he means by good, my good, is another problem. He is capable of wanting me to be happy, such a thing has been known, it appears .

 This time I .im short of a leg. And yet it appears I have rejuvenated. Having brought me to death’s door, senile gangrene, they whip off a leg and yip off I go again . More than once 1 almost took myself for the other, all but suffered after his fashion, the space of an instant .

 According to Mahood I never reached them, that is to say they all died first, the whole ten or eleven of them, carried off by sausage-poisoning . Incommoded first by their shrieks, then by the stench of decomposition, I turned sadly away . My parents differed in their views on me, but they agreed I had been a fine baby .

 They were right in saying I had fallen, they were not far wrong . But is it certain? Would I have not been more likely, in a sudden access of independence, to devour what remained of the fatal corned-beef?

 Police tolerate 330 SAMUEL BECKETT by the police . They know I am speechless and capable of taking unfair advantage of my situation to stir up the population against its governors . There’s no getting rid of them without naming them and their contraptions, that's the thing to keep in mind .

 The one-armed one-legged wayfarer of a moment ago ftnd the wedge-headed trunk in which he is now marooned are simply two phases of the same carnal envelope . Having lost one leg, what indeed more likely thar* that I should mislay the other?

 She changes every week, when she makes my toilet . First look of her eyes still moist with fornication is for the jar . And when she does not sea- my head she comes running to find out what has happened . For either I have escaped during the night or else I have shrunk again . To have forever before my eyes, when I opeif them, approximately the same set of hallucinations exactly .

 A parrot, that’s what they’re up against, a parrot. If they had told me what I have to say, in order to meet with their approval. I’d be bound to say it, sooner or later. But God forbid, that would be too easy, my heart wouldn’t be in it. But the other voice, of him who does not share this passion for the animal kingdom, who is waiting to hear from me, what May one speak of a voice, in these conditions? Probably not. And I speak of voices! After all, why not, why

 The essential is never to arrive anywhere, never to be anywhere, neither where Mahood is, nor where . where . Worm is, or if I am not yet Worm, I shall be when I cease to be Mahood, plop. be silent too . I'll die in the lower third, bowed down with years and impositions, four foot tall again, like when I had a future .

 As long as I am not distinguished by some sense organs other than Madeleine's, it will be impossible for me to believe, sufficiently to pursue my act, the things that arc told about me . When Mahood once knew a doctor who held that scientifically speaking the latest breath could only issue from the . . The next thing is somehow to connect this with the unhappy Madelein and her great goodness .

 The stories of Mahood are ended. He has realised they could not be about me, he has aban- doned . I say what I am told to say, in the hope that some day they will weary of talking at me . The trouble is I say it wrong, having no ear, no head, no memory .

 Samuel BECKETT's latest novel, The Death of Worm, is published by Simon Cowell . It is about the struggle to withstand the starting eye, the labouring mind . The novel is set to be published in Paris next week .

 'Worm* will I ever get born? It’s the same problem. But perhaps not the same person- age after all . Tihe scytheman will tell, it's all one to him . But let us go back as planned, afterwards we’ll fall forward as projected . The reverse would be more like it .

 The only noises Worm has had till now are those of mohths, correct . Worm says he knows they are words but how can he know, who has never heard anythftig else? A head has grown out of his ear, the better to enrage him, that must be it . The head is there,, glued to the ear, and in it nothing but rage, that’s all that matters, for the time being .

 The voice of the blest interceding invisible, for the living and for the dead, all is possible, he hears . Worm is alone, and mute, lost in the smoke, and lost in smoke . Worm understands nothing it says, just a little, almost nothing, it's inexplicable .

 'Worm suffers only from the noise which prevents him from being what he was before, admire the nuance' 'Perhaps one day brightness will come, little by little, or rapidly, or in a sudden flood . There must be something of everything here, as in every world, a little of everything . A face, how encouraging that would be, if it could be a face, every now and then, always the same, methodi-cally varying its expressions .

 Aif eruption is what’s needed to spew Worm into the light, to spew him out of the shadows . Worm should have fled, but where, how, he's riveted . Worm is riveted, but how could he, he can't 6tir, it needn’t be bonds, there are no bonds .

 SAMUEL BECKETT tence is only a question of time . He says he must doze off from time to time, with open eyes, and yet nothing changes, ever . There is nothing for it but to wait for the end, nothing but for it to come .

 It's time Mahood was forgotten, he should never have been mentioned . But is it possible to forget him? It is true one forgets everything . And yet it is greatly to be feared tliat Mahood will never let himself be completely resorbed .

 WIlliam Worm: 'How can one enjoy good health under such conditions, and what is one to believe? The master in any case, we don’t intend, listen to them hedging, we . don't intenfi, unless absolutely driven to it, to make the mistake of inquiring into him, he’d turn out to be a mere high official . We have lost all sense of decency admit- tedly, but there are still certain depths we prefer not to sink to . Let us keep to the family circle, it's more intimate, it’s more intimate . It's from

 "I'll bo in the bag, that's how I see it, I see nothing," says Samuel Beckett . "They don't under-stand, I can't go to them, they'll have to come and get me, Mahood won't get me out"

 'I am de#r to them, now it's they are dear to me, glad to hear it, they’ll join us, one by one, so are we, dear charnel-house of renegades' 'I don’t feel a mouth on me, nor a head, do Samuel Beckett says he prefers that'

 'Samuel Beckett has no mouth and will grow one, a little hole at first, then wider anil wider, deeper and deeper, the air will gush into me, and out a second later, howling. I feeL an ear, frankly now I feel an car' 'I'm in the middle. I’ve two surfaces and no thickness, perhaps that's what I feel, myself vibrating, I'm the tympanum'

 SAMUEL BECKETT: 'I seek nothing, nothirfc any more, no matter, let’s leave it, no harking, and that I seek, 1 listen to them now, jogging my memory, seek what, firstly what it is, secondly where it comes from, thirdly how I manage, to do it' 'I am not in that fortunate position, all, how you exag- gerate, always out for the whole hog,' he says .

 SAMUEL BECKETT's best, seeking the means of staying among the living, of getting off with his life, or shut up looking out of the window at the ever-changing sky, is that it, to be unable to lose myself . The voice. I hardly hear it any more. I’m looking for my mother to kill her, I should have thought of that a bit earlier .

 There was never anyone but you, talking to you about you, about them, all I have to do is listen . Hearing too little to be able to speak, that's my silence . Then it will flare up, like a kindling fire, a dying fire, and I'll emerge from silence .

 Samuel Beckett describes the work of filling and emptying tanks under the floor . He says he'd be good at that, it would be a better life than this, no, I mustn't start complaining .

 Samuel BECKETT wants himself in his own corner, not love, not curiosity, it's because you're tired . He writes: "If I could be in a forest, caught in a thicket, or wandering round in circles, it would be the end of this blither"

 There must be others in other elsewheres, each one in his little else- where, this word that keeps coming back, is this word . I’ve forgotten my apodosis, but I can't, I can’'t hear any more . In the end it comes to that, to the survival of that alone .

 The story was to teach me the naturp of emotion, that’s called emotion, what emotion can do, given favourable conditions, what love can do . Samuel BECKETT is a man by some other name, and this word man is perhaps not the right one for the thing I see when I hear .

 There must be someone, the voice must belong to someone, I’ve no objection, what it wants I want, I am it . I need walls, good and thick, I need a prison, I was right, for me alone . Perhaps a whole people is here, and the voice its voi^e, coming . A whole people, talking and listening, all together, that would ex, no, no. to me fitfully, we would have lived .

 Beckett's latest novel, The Death of Samuel Beckett, is published by Simon Cowell . It is set to be released in the UK on Friday . 'I must be extremely old, or it’s memory playing tricks'

 Perhaps it’s done already, perhaps they have said me a4*eady . Perhaps they have carried me to the threshold of my story . me .

