 Molloy is in his mother's room and sleeps in her bed and piss and shit in her pot . He says he doesn't know how he got there thanks to a man who comes every week . Sometimes I tell myself it’s impossible I could ever have helped anyone .

 To apply the letter of the law to a creature like me is not an easy matter, but reason is against it . To him who has nothing it is forbidden not to relish filth . The declining sun fell full on the white wall of the barracks .

 SAMUEL BECKETT lost a knife in a burst of irritation, but resolved to declare loudly that a knife was missing . He soon received a very fine vegetable knife, so-called stainless, but it didn’t take me long to stain it, and which opened and shut into the bargain, unlike all the vegetable knives he had ever known . The words engraved themselves for ever on my memory, perhaps because V understood them at once .

 Molloy 67 is haunted by memories of his legs and feet . Says he can't forget them as he can his arms, which are sound and well .

 Samuel Beckett lived in the forest, not all forest, but plains, mountains and sea, and some towns and villages . He says he looked forward to getting out of the forest some day . But I could not, stay . physically nothing could have been easier, but I was not purely physical, I lacked something .

 Samuel Beckett was a neighbour but had no patience with people who took liberty to disturb him . He was dressed in his heavy, sombre Sunday best, and at this my displeasure knew no bounds . Peeping and prying were part of my profession . I decided to ask for a private communion, in the course of the afternoon .

 SAMUEL BECKETT was haunted by his son's death in the garden . He reflected with bitter satisfaction that if my son lay down and died by the wayside, it would not have none of Molloy . Even grotesque he commands a certain respect .

 The land did not lend itself to cultiva- tion . The pastures, in spite of torrential rains, were exceedingly meagre and strewn with boulders . Only quitchweed grew in abundance and a curious bitter blue grass fatal to cows and horses .

 Moran: "I wished I could have been in the middle of a desert, under the midday sun, to look after him till he was only a dot, on the edge of the horizon . The day seemed very long. I missed my son! I busied myself as best I could . I took advantage of being alone at last, with no other witness than God, to masturbate . I circled the shelter several times, thinking the exercise would benefit my knee .

 SAMUEL BECKETT says he wanted his son to learn double-entry book-keeping . He also wanted him to keep an eye out, on his expeditions, for a second bicycle . And he always had a far greater sum in his pocket than was strictly necessary .

 SAMUEL BECKETT has lived in a kind of coma for the last six months . The case is reversed, the way well charted and little hope of coming to its end .

 SAMUEL BECKETT has tried to reflect on the beginning of his story . There are things I do not understand, but nothing to signify I can go on . The search for myself is ended! I am buried in the world, I knew I would find my place there one day .

 SAMUEL BECKETT writes about himself with the same pencil and in the same exercise book as about him . From now on I shall write on both sides of the page .

 The best way to pass unnoticed is to lie down flat and not move, and so there I am, who always thought I would shrivel and shrivel, more and more, until in the end I could be almost buried in a casket, swelling . 'I simply believe I can say nothing that is not true'

 SAMUEL BECKETT wonders if he should go on drawing up an inventory corresponding perhaps but faintly to the facts . If it was my hat I might put it on, that would remind me of the good old days, though I remember them sufficiently well . I wonder if I could contrive, wielding my stick like a punt-pole, to move my bed . There is a providence for impotent old men, to the end .

 Macmann was soon able to dispense with the explanations of his correspondent and understand all unaided . Lemuel gave the impression of being slightly more stupid than malevolent, and yet his malevolence was con- siderable . The light has been queer ever since, oh I insinuate nothing, dim and at the same time radiant .

 SAMUEL BECKETT: 'Would it not have been preferable to make this known to all concerned, so that the sense of guilt might precede and accompany it as well? Problem. Thanks to the white cloak with its blue butcher stripes no confusion was possible between the Macmanns and the Lemuels, Pats and Jacks . Macmann tore up this photograph and threw the bits in the air, one windy day .

 Think of myself as being here forever, but not as having been here forever . That I am not stone deaf is shown by the sounds that reach me . When did all this nonsense stop? And has it stopped? Is it merely a lull? I use it still to scratch my arse with .

 It seems impossible, at this stage, that I should dispense with questions, as I promised myself I would . And perhaps before long, who knows, I shall light on the happy combination which will prevent them from ever arising again in my — let us not be over-nice — mind . What he means by good, my good, is another problem . He is capable of wanting me to be happy, such a thing has been known, it appears . This time I .im short of a leg. And yet it appears I have rejuvenated. Having brought me to death’s door, senile gangrene, they

 Police tolerate 330 SAMUEL BECKETT by the police . They know I am speechless and capable of taking unfair advantage of my situation to stir up the population against its governors .

 Samuel BECKETT's latest novel, The Death of Worm, is published by Simon Cowell . It is about the struggle to withstand the starting eye, the labouring mind . The novel is set to be published in Paris next week .

 A head has grown out of Worm's ear, the better to enrage him, that must be it . Worm understands nothing it says, just a little, almost nothing, it's inexplicable . 'Perhaps one day brightness will come, little by little, or rapidly, or in a sudden flood'

 'I don’t feel a mouth on me, nor a head, do Samuel Beckett says he prefers that' 'Samuel Beckett has no mouth and will grow one, a little hole at first, then wider anil wider, deeper and deeper, the air will gush into me, and out a second later, howling. I feeL an ear, frankly now I feel an car' 'I’ve two surfaces and no thickness, perhaps that's what I feel, myself vibrating, I'm the tympanum'

 Samuel Beckett's best, seeking the means of staying among the living, of getting off with his life, is that it, to be unable to lose myself . The voice. I hardly hear it any more. I’m looking for my mother to kill her, I should have thought of that a bit earlier .

 Beckett's latest novel, The Death of Samuel Beckett, is published by Simon Cowell . It is set to be released in the UK on Friday . 'I need walls, good and thick, I need a prison, I was right, for me alone'

