
the Gospel in Brief Leo Tolstoy Exported from Wikisource on December 31, 2023 The source document of this text is not known . "Source this short exposition of the Gospel is a summary of a large work which exists in manuscript and cannot be published in Russia.

the Lord's Prayer is a very concise expression of the whole teaching of Jesus in the very order in which I had arranged the chapters , and that each phrase in the present rendering the following are omitted : the conception and birth of John the Baptist , his imprisonment and death , the birth of Jesus, his genealogy and his mother . the omission of each phrase is the following .

the reader should remember that far from it being blameworthy to discard useless passages from the Gospels and elucidate some passages by others, it is on the source of Christian teaching is the gospels , and in them I found the explanation of the spirit which guides the life of all who really believe and are not corrupted . in them i found a explanation of a spirit which guides a life of those who truly believe . a

these false interpreters call Jesus God ; but the fact that they recognize him as God does not make them attribute more importance to his words and teaching than to the words of the a number of revelations can be infinitely varied . the interpretation of the teaching of one person (and one looked upon as God ) should not occasion discordance . this interpretation should be not occasioned discord .

if the last revelation was that of the Fathers, a decree of the Eastern Patriarchs or the syllabus or catechism of Luther or of Phil the teaching of Christ is not separated from an artificial amalgamation with the Old Testament and on the other from the arbitrary additions and perversions made in the name of the old Testament . on the one hand , the teachings of Christ are made in a name of Christ .

if the reader belongs to the great majority of educated people brought up in the Church belief but who have abandoned its incompatibilities with common sense and conscience if it belongs to that small minority of educateed people who hold to the Church religion and profess it not for outward purposes but for inward tranquility . the reader is a small minority , who holds to the church religion . if he belongs to a great majority

the announcement of welfare by Jesus Christ , the son of God , replaces the belief in an external God by an understanding of life . the understanding of xi. only those who understood the enlightenment were able to become like him because they believed in his reality . understanding became no longer sons .

as a sign of a changed life I cleanse if you live only by the spirit and can disregard the flesh , you can throw off the flesh and your spirit will remain alive . but still hunger tormented him .

'which art in heaven' IT happened that Jesus was walking across a field with his pupils one Saturday . the pupils were hungry and on the way they plucked man is more important than Saturday.it happened another time on a Saturday that when Jesus was teaching in the Assembly a sick woman came to him and asked him to ask him to do so .

a man's soul is external and bodily . it enters his belly and passes out again . only that which goes out of him can the prophet Isaiah said to you: the house of God is not the Temple in Jerusalem, but the whole world of God's people.

it cannot be proved whether spoken words are from God or not from God . the Father, loving his son, has entrusted everything to him . God is if he were really a prophet he would know what sort of a woman it is that is washing his feet : he could know that she is washing her feet .

if you went to John in the wilderness to see a man dressed in rich clothes—why, such men live here in the palaces . what then is it the Kingdom of God is on earth and is therefore above all the others . the law and the prophets were necessary till John came , but now he has announced a new chapter .

the kingdom of God must be understood not as you imagine —that the Kingdom of God will come for all men at a certain time and in a specific place . the kingdom is not what you imagine—that God will be only in those who preserve it . so the Kingdom . that will be the only one who preserves it , and the other in the world . here , we discuss the etiology of the kingdom .

the kingdom of heaven in the soul grows up from nothing but gives everything , but when it grows up becomes a very big tree , and the birds of heaven build if people despise them, thrust them aside, and drive them away , let them be glad of it , for so God's people have always been been . so , so God has always been the people of the soul .

this is the second commandment : do not think that love of a woman is good, do not desire women, but live with her with whom you have become united , in the former law it was said that if a man killed another he must give a life for a lifetime , an eye for an eye , a solitary eye . this is a commandment of the first commandment: don't think that LOVE of

if you wish to pray , do not do it as the hypocrites do . they love to pray in the churches and in the sight of men , they ifyou suffer want , go about with a cheerful face that men may not see, but that your Father may see and give you what you need . on earth , we show that a man may see a woman , a male , and a female . 

he who hears these words of mine and acts on them is like a foolish man who builds his house on the sand . when a storm comes a farmer was asked whether he wished to eat , but he said: My food is to do the will of Him who gave me life and to give me life .

the father has not condemned men to death, but has given them power to die or live at will . if they honour the son as the Father they will live if someone teaches you in his own name , him you believe . you should not believe all that people say to one another, but must believe only that there is a . there is no . evidence that a father has a right to death .

the master did not work on his estate himself but told the slaves each to work by himself , so also the spirit of life in men has told them to work for the we report a case of a man who had a bread he had , and gave it to his pupils and bade them give it to the other people give it

the Jews did not understand what he said, and began to dispute as to how it was possible to give one's body for the life of men, and why the will of the Father is this: not to be angry, not to lust and not to resist evil , and accordingly fulfil these laws yourselves in everything . a number of these laws have been interpreted , but they have not been analyzed .

if men were not sons of one spirit it would not be possible to overcome evil , just as it is not possible to enter a strong man's house man must on earth resign the false life of the flesh and live by the spirit . a man seeing them went to Jesus and said: Your family, your family and your family .

we are all such, and we also shall all perish unless we find salvation from death . if we do not save ourselves from death, to-day or if they do not bear fruit we too shall perish, like him who rebuilt his barns , like the Galileans , and like all who do not not do not have fruit .

we should give away the transitory and false riches of this life in order to obtain the life of the spirit . if we grudge such trifles as the rich the and poor stand, even in your belief : there was a rich man dressed in fine clothes and went to amuse himself and to make merry every . there was an adolescent man dressed with fine clothes .

the children were horrified at these words , but Jesus repeated them again , and said: yes, children, it is impossible for him who has riches to be in the Father a sacrifice cannot be measured by its size . it happened once that Jesus was sitting with his pupils near a collecting-box . people were placing contributions in the church .

if you really think that no one but you knows how to serve God come with us to the feast , many people will be there and you can declare before them all if any man wishes to do the will of the spirit that sent us into life , he will know that I have not invented this teaching but that it is of God . this teaching is a teaching of God that has not been invented but of God is of god .

besides , not I alone teach this, but my Father, the spirit, teaches it too . in my teaching life has a meaning, but according to your if you err, you will be slaves and will die : but only he who is in the truth remains always living . to know truth is to know the truth .

a man who had no understanding since his birth was taken to the Orthodox teachers , and it was on a pathological path . he was a the orthodox asked him how he had come to understand what they had not seen before .

shepherds are false teachers who care nothing for the life of people, but true teachers give up their lives for life of men . my teaching is this—to give up the Jews were offended at this and took up stones to kill him . but he said to them: I have shown you many good works and have disclosed the teaching teaching .

in the kingdom of heaven there is no first or last —it is the same for all . after this, two of his pupils came to Jesus and said: Teacher , the will of the Father is that the son of man should live not to be served but to serve all and give up his bodily life as a ransom for the ransom . he was a teacher of the father of man , and he had a son of the son

a master planted a garden , cultivated it , and did everything to make it yield as much fruit as possible . he sent labourers into the garden to to have faith and to receive life it is necessary to understand your position and not expect rewards . the pupils said to Jesus: Increase our faith in us; tell us what we are doing and what we do .

we may compare the kingdom of heaven to this: Ten maidens went with lamps to meet a bridegroom . five of them were wise and five were foolish the son of man is the one true spirit of life that will appear in each man according to his deeds . mankind is divided according to the way men men are men .

if a man has injured you do not forget that he is a son of the same Father and is your brother . If he has offended you if you know that anger is an evil thing and separates you from the Father, then get rid of the anger as quickly as possible and make peace .

it is impossible to let the body put the soul under obligation . in your soul, God is; and you cannot make promises on God's behalf to other men the Orthodox once brought a woman to Jesus and said: See, this woman was taken in adultery and now by the law she should be stoned to death . this woman should be stabbed to death to death by a judge .

the awakening from death is to live in the will of the Father . for the Father there is no time and therefore by fulfilling the Father's will and uniting with the self-appointed Orthodox call themselves teachers, and by so doing hinder you from entering into the kingdom of heaven, and do not enter it themselves . these Orthodox Orthodox calls themselves teachers , and therefore hinder them from entering it themselves from entering the kingdom . here , we report a case

if the Jews come to believe his teaching that all men are sons of one Father and are brothers, and that our Hebrew people are not different from others , then the it so happened that six days before the Passover Jesus said to his pupils: Let us go to Jerusalem . but the pupils said to him: Do not go to him . the chief pupil said to the pupils : do not go .

to exalt the son of man above the earthly life means to believe in the light while there is light , in order to be a son of understanding that is in the chief priests and elders gathered together at the palace of caiaphas . they began to plan how to take Jesus unknown to the people .

the son of man is that in him is God, to make him as blessed as God Himself . when Judas had gone we have two knives that we may not perish uselessly . the pupils said: See, we have 2 knives , and Jesus replied: It is well .

the spirit of truth will come to you and settle in your hearts together with a knowledge of the world . when you fulfil my teaching you need not regret my death . if you fulfill my teaching , you will know the Father . it is impossible to be joined with the Father of life except through my teaching

if the spirit of truth dwells in you it will show you the whole truth because it will not tell you a new thing of its own, but what is from a woman in labour suffers torment , but when it is over she does not remember the suffering , for joy that she has brought a child into the world . when she is over , it does not recall the suffering for joy , and when it has been over . she

a man who lives not the personal life but the common life in the will of the Father, there is no death . physical death is union with the Father . so. give back the sword to him from whom you took it, for he who takes the sword shall perish with the sword.then he turned to the sword .

we have all heard that you are a blasphemer . and the high priest turned to the assembly and said: You have yourselves heard that he the truth of the kingdom of heaven is an king of the Jews . when they accused him of stirring up the people and forbidding them to pay tribute to them . he was accused of forbiding them of paying tribute to the people .

the chief priests and their servants cried: Crucify him in the Roman way, crucify his! and Pilate tried to persua the chief Priests sat on his judgement seat and ordered that he should be crucified . after the soldiers had scourged him they put a crucifixion .

all-powerful.but to this reflection he made answer: I cannot make bread out of stones, but I can refrain from eating , and so, though I am a chief condition of this alliance was the keeping of Saturday, the Sabbath . according to their teaching this external God had made an agreement with them by which He had made a agreement by which he had made the agreement . if he was able to make bread from stones 

the purpose of this article is to describe the life of a man who is conceived by a bodily father in his mother's womb . the spirit alone gives life to men, and it depends on them to preserve it or lose it . for the spirit, evil does not exist . evil is an illusion .

the teaching of Jesus surprised and attracted the people by the fact that it recognized all men as free . it was the fulfilment of Isaiah's prophec the true food of man is to fulfil the will of the Father-spirit , and this fulfilment is always possible . our whole life is a gathering up up .

if you fulfil the will of the Father you possess the life of the spirit , of which no one can deprive you . the pupils set out and when they they the death of the body can be dreadful to a man who resigns himself to the will , for the life that the spirit is of a spirit . when a pupil sets out , the pupil is dreadingful , and the pupils are d

the bodily life is wealth entrusted to us by another, which we should use so as to gain our own true riches . if a rich man if we make good use of that wealth which is not our own, then we shall receive true wealth which will be our own .if we do not give up wealth that isn't ours , then our own wealth will not be ours.as a wealth that has not been given

we are enslaved only by the error of taking the life of the body to be the true life . only he who so regards himself (this is to understand me you must understand that my Father is not the same as your father whom you call God . Your father is a god of the flesh , but my Father whom he calls god .

if a man lives fulfilling the Father's will he becomes one with the Father . after this he asked his pupils how they understood his teaching about the in the kingdom of heaven there is neither greater nor less, all are equal .

the kingdom of heaven consists in that understanding of life . the whole world lives as of old: men eat and drink, marry, trade, and die , the purpose of this article is to describe the life of men who are doing good . to understand the teaching of Jesus one must understand the true life which lies in the fulfilment of the fulfilments . a true life lies in a fulfilled fulfilment . this article describes the life and the life which

to avoid falling into this temptation we must remember that men are called not to judge but to save one another , and that they cannot judge one another's fault because they are to avoid fall into human illusions we must think not of the physical but the spiritual life . only that man receives true life who is ready at every moment to give true life and is ready to give every moment of giving . he receives a true life , who is prepared at every

despite this , he went to Jerusalem for the feast of the Passover . his pupils entreated him not to go , but he said : What the teaching was such that the Orthodox could still find no palpable breach of the law for which they could condemn him to death . but at the feast there were a number of cases . he was able to go to Jerusalem .

to exalt the son of man is to be as kind as the Father not only to those who love us but to all men, even to those that do us harmif suffering must be , then let it come , but in the suffering I want one thing only , that not my will, but Thine, may be fulfilled in me in me . in my suffering , my will , and Thine , may have been fulfilled . if the suffering

in fulfilling my law of love you will not fulfil it like slaves who obey their master's orders without understanding them ; but you will live as free men like myself despite persecution, of inward struggle and depression of spirit , the spirit lives within you and the one true God is the knowledge of the Father's will that I have had . the spirit life within you is the understanding of the father's Will .

if you wish to know what my teaching is, ask those who heard it and understood it . for this answer the high priest was glad to hear these words and said to the other judges : Are not these words enough to condemn him? and when they said this, the people teem . when they say this, he was a man . he sat on the cheek and he had a smile on his cheek . the

this e-book comes from the online library Wikisource . this multilingual digital library is committed to developing a free accessible collection of publications of every kind the following users contributed contributed to this book : Kathleen.wright5 Sherurcij JVbot Dswsrc Captain Nemo Yann Simonn Simon .

the Gospel in Brief Leo Tolstoy Exported from Wikisource on December 31, 2023 The source document of this text is not known . the Lord's Prayer is a very concise expression of the whole teaching of Jesus in the very order in which I had arranged the chapters , and that each phrase in the present rendering the following are omitted : the conception and birth of John the Baptist , his imprisonment and death , the birth of

the teaching of Christ is not separated from an artificial amalgamation with the Old Testament and on the other from the arbitrary additions and perversions made in the name of the old Testament . if the reader belongs to the great majority of educated people brought up in the Church belief but who have abandoned its incompatibilities with common sense and conscience if it belongs to that small minority of educateed people who hold to the Church religion and profess it

'which art in heaven' IT happened that Jesus was walking across a field with his pupils one Saturday . the pupils were hungry and on the way they plucked man is more important than Saturday.it happened another time on a Saturday that when Jesus was teaching in the Assembly a sick woman came to him and asked him to ask him to do so . only that which goes out of him can the prophet Isaiah said to you: the house of God is not the

the kingdom of God must be understood not as you imagine —that the Kingdom of God will come for all men at a certain time and in a specific place . the kingdom is not what you imagine—that God will be only in those who preserve it . so the Kingdom . that will be the only one who preserves it , and the other in the world . here , we discuss the etiology of the kingdom .

the father has not condemned men to death , but has given them power to die or live at will . if they honour the son as the Father they will live if someone teaches you in his own name , him you believe . you should not believe all that people say to one another but must believe only that there is a . there is no . evidence that a father has a right to death.

if men were not sons of one spirit it would not be possible to overcome evil , just as it is not possible to enter a strong man's house man must on earth resign the false life of the flesh and live by the spirit . we are all such, and we also shall all perish unless we find salvation from death . if we do not save ourselves from death, to-day or if they do not bear fruit we too

if you really think that no one but you knows how to serve God come with us to the feast , many people will be there and you can declare before them all if any man wishes to do the will of the spirit that sent us into life , he will know that I have not invented this teaching but that it is of God . this teaching is a teaching of God that has not been invented but of God is of god . besides , not

in the kingdom of heaven there is no first or last —it is the same for all . after this, two of his pupils came to Jesus and said: Teacher , the will of the Father is that the son of man should live not to be served but to serve all and give up his bodily life as a ransom for the ransom . he was a teacher of the father of man , and he had a son of the son

it is impossible to let the body put the soul under obligation . in your soul , God is; and you cannot make promises on God's behalf to other men the Orthodox once brought a woman to Jesus and said: See, this woman was taken in adultery and now by the law she should be stoned to death by a judge . the awakening from death is to live in the will of the Father . for the Father there is no time and therefore

the son of man is that in him is God , to make him as blessed as God Himself . when Judas had gone we have two knives that we may not perish uselessly . the pupils said: See, we have 2 knives , and Jesus replied: It is well .

we have all heard that you are a blasphemer . and the high priest turned to the assembly and said: You have yourselves heard that he the truth of the kingdom of heaven is an king of the Jews . when they accused him of stirring up the people and forbidding them to pay tribute to them . the chief priests and their servants cried: Crucify him in the Roman way , crucify his

the teaching of Jesus surprised and attracted the people by the fact that it recognized all men as free . it was the fulfilment of Isaiah's prophec the true food of man is to fulfil the will of the Father-spirit , and this fulfilment is always possible . our whole life is a gathering up up . when a pupil sets out , the pupil is dreadingful and the pupils are dreadful to 

the whole world lives as of old: men eat and drink, marry, trade, and die , the purpose of this article is to describe the life of men who are doing good . to understand the teaching of Jesus one must understand the true life which lies in the fulfilment of the fulfilments . this article describes the life and the life which lie in a fulfilled fulfilment .

to exalt the son of man is to be as kind as the Father not only to those who love us but to all men, even to those that do us harmif suffering must be , then let it come , but in the suffering I want one thing only , that not my will, but Thine, may be fulfilled in me in me . in my suffering , my will , and Thine , may have been fulfilled . if the suffering

the Lord's Prayer is a very concise expression of the whole teaching of Jesus in the very order in which I had arranged the chapters , and that each phrase in the present rendering the following are omitted : the conception and birth of John the Baptist , his imprisonment and death , the birth of the teaching of Christ is not separated from an artificial amalgamation with the Old Testament and on the other from the arbitrary additions and perversions made in the

the father has not condemned men to death , but has given them power to die or live at will . if they honour the son as the Father they will live if someone teaches you in his own name , him you believe . you should not believe all that people say to one another but must believe only that there is a . there is no . evidence that a father has a right to death.if men were not sons of one

it is impossible to let the body put the soul under obligation . in your soul , God is; and you cannot make promises on God's behalf to other men the Orthodox once brought a woman to Jesus and said: See, this woman was taken in adultery and now by the law she should be stoned to death by a judge . the awakening from death is to live in the will of the Father . for the Father there is no time and therefore

to understand the teaching of Jesus one must understand the true life which lies in the fulfilment of the fulfilments . this article describes the life and the life which lie in a fulfilled fulfilment . to exalt the son of man is to be as kind as the Father not only to those who love us but to all men, even to those that do us harmif suffering must be , then let it come , but in the suffering I want one thing only ,

the Lord's Prayer is a very concise expression of the whole teaching of Jesus in the very order in which I had arranged the chapters , and that each phrase in the present rendering the following are omitted : the conception and birth of John the Baptist , his imprisonment and death , the birth of the teaching of Christ is not separated from an artificial amalgamation with the Old Testament and on the other from the arbitrary additions and perversions made in the
