



Iteration 0


 Metamorphosis by Franz Kafka is published by David Wyllie and published by Franz Franz Kafka .

 It was half past six and the hands were quietly moving forwards, it was even later than half past, more like quarter to seven . The next train went at seven . He felt a slight itch on his belly; pushed himself slowly up on his back towards the headboard so that he could lift his head better .

 The office assistant was the boss’s man, spineless, and with no understanding . Gregor had wanted to give a full answer and explain everything, but contented himself with saying: “Yes, mother, yes, thank-you, I I am fine.”

 Gregor tried to get the lower part of his body out of the bed, but it turned out to be too hard to move . Gregor, however, had no thought of opening the door, and instead congratulated himself for his cautious habit of locking all doors at night even when he was at home .

 Gregor told himself once more that it was not possible for him to stay in bed and that the most sensible thing to do would be to get free of it . Gregor lay there quietly a while longer, breathing lightly as if he perhaps expected the total stillness to bring things back to their natural state .

 Two strong people would have been more than enough to pull him from the bed and carry him over onto the floor . Gregor wondered why did he have to be the only one condemned to work for a company where they immediately became highly suspicious at the slightest shortcoming?

 Gregor Samsa's idea of relaxation is working with his fretsaw . He sits with us in the kitchen and just reads the paper or studies train timetables . Gregor tried to imagine whether something of the sort that had happened to him today could ever happen to the chief clerk .

 Gregor was still there and had not the slightest intention of abandoning his family . The chief clerk now raised his voice, “Mr. Samsa’s parents and of your employer, and really must request a clear and immediate explanation .

 Gregor tried to climb up on the smooth chest of drawers he just slid down again . Gregor was quite alright last night, my parents know about it, perhaps better than me . I had a small symptom of it last night already . Please, don't don't .

 Gregor felt that he had been drawn back in among people, and that made him feel better . Gregor slowly pushed his way over to the door with the chair and threw himself onto the door . He rested there a little while to recover from the effort involved .

 Gregor bit on the key with all his strength, paying no attention to the pain he was causing himself . Gregor heard the chief clerk exclaim a loud ‘Oh!’ which sounded like the soughing of the wind .

 Gregor’s father would stretch his breakfast out for several hours as he sat reading a number of different newspapers . The washing up from breakfast lay on the table as Gregor's father sat reading newspapers . It's quite possible for someone to be temporarily unable to work, but that's just the right time to remember what's been achieved .

 Gregor realised that it was out of the question to let the chief clerk go away in this mood . Chief clerk turned away as soon as Gregor started to speak, and, with protruding lips, only stared back at him over his trembling shoulders as he left .

 Gregor made a run for the chief clerk, who had already reached the stairs . His mother was not far away in front of him and seemed engrossed in her work . Gregor let go of the door; pushed himself through the opening .

 The flight of the chief clerk seemed, unfortunately, to put Gregor’s father into a panic as well . Until then he had been relatively self controlled, until then . Gregor was afraid that if he took the time to do so, he would have been back in his room straight away .

 Gregor awoke from his deep and coma-like sleep when it was dark . Gregor pushed through the other of the double doors so that Gregor would have enough space to get through .

 Gregor felt a great pride that he was able to provide a life like that in such a nice home for his sister and parents . Gregor could see that the gas had been lit in the living room .

 Gregor passed in a light sleep, although he frequently woke from it in alarm because of his hunger . Some of the time was spent in worries and vague hopes . It was clear that no-one would come into Gregor’s room .

 Gregor's injuries must already have completely healed as he found no difficulty in moving . Gregor was extremely curious as to what she would bring in its place, imagining the wildest possibilities, but he never could have guessed what his sister would do .

 Gregor watched with bulging eyes as his sister swept up the left-overs, mixing them in with the food he had not even touched at all as if it had been there . Gregor was seldom any conversation, especially at first, that was not about him in some way .

 Gregor heard how he opened the complicated lock and then closed it again after he had taken the item he wanted . Gregor had thought that nothing at all remained from his collection .

 Gregor only remained close to his sister now . Unlike him, she was very fond of music and a gifted and expressive violinist . Despite all their misfortunes there was still some money available from the old days .

 Gregor's father was healthy but old, and lacking self confidence . During the five years that he had not been working, he had put on a lot of weight . Gregor used to feel a great sense of freedom from doing this, but doing it now was obviously something more remembered than experienced .

 Gregor went straight to hide himself under the couch, but he had to wait until midday before his sister came back . His sister, naturally, tried as far as possible to pretend there was nothing burdensome about it, and the longer it went on, the better she was able to .

 Gregor thought he glimpsed a look of gratitude one time when he carefully looked out from under the sheet to see how his sister liked the new arrangement . Gregor wanted to avoid being seen at the window during the day .

 His sister noticed his new way of entertaining himself and decided to remove furniture that got in his way, especially the desk and chest of drawers . Gregor listened as they pushed it from its place .

 Gregor realised that the lack of direct human communication, along with the monotonous life led by the family during these two months, must have made him confused . His sister, Grete, had become used to the idea that she was Gregor’s spokesman to his parents .

 Gregor’s mother already looked uneasy in his room, she soon stopped speaking and helped his sister to get the chest of drawers out . Gregor kept trying to assure himself that nothing unusual was happening, it was just a few pieces of furniture being moved after all, but he soon had to admit that .

 Gregor changed direction four times not knowing what he should save first . His attention was suddenly caught by the picture on the wall of the lady dressed in copious fur .

 Gregor was shut out from his mother, who, because of him, might be near to death . Gregor lay there for a while, numb and immobile, immobile . He lay . There was no time to try to calm his father, as he did not have the time to explain things to him .

 The same tired man as used to be laying there entombed in his bed when Gregor came back from his business trips . Gregor was amazed at the enormous size of the soles of his boots .

 Gregor froze in shock when an apple flew down and rolled in front of him . There was no longer any point in running as his father had decided to bombard him with an apple . The last thing Gregor saw was the door of his room being pulled open, his sister was screaming .

 Gregor’s father refused to take his uniform off even at home . Gregor had been reduced to the condition of an ancient invalid and it took him long, long minutes to crawl across his room .

 Gregor's mother would tug at his sleeve, whisper endearments into his ear, but nothing would have any effect on him . The household budget became even smaller; so now the maid was dismissed . Several items of jewellery belonging to the family had been sold .

 Gregor’s father brought bank employees breakfast, his mother washed clothes for strangers, his sister ran back and forth behind her desk at the behest of the customers . Gregor's sister no longer thought about how she could please him but would hurriedly push some food or other into his room with her foot before she rushed to her room .

 Gregor’s sister was exhausted from going out to work, and looking after Gregor as she had done before was even more work for her . Gregor's mother did once thoroughly clean his room, and needed several bucketfuls of water to do it .

 One of the rooms in the flat had been rented out to three gentlemen . Gregor was taken totally by surprise by the charwoman who opened the door slightly every evening and morning and looked briefly in on him .

 Gregor's mother and sister filled the room with the smell of steaming steaming food . The gentlemen bent over the dishes as if they wanted to test the food . Anything she couldn't use for the time being she would just chuck in there .

 Gregor’s father soon appeared with the music stand, his mother and his sister with the violin . Gregor could not remember having heard having heard the violin being played, but this evening it began to be heard from the kitchen .

 Gregor crawled a little further forward, keeping his head close to the ground so that he could meet her eyes . Gregor was determined to make his way forward to his sister and tug at her skirt to show her she might come into his room with her violin .

 The violin went silent, the middle of the three gentlemen first smiled at his two friends, shaking his head, and then looked back at Gregor . Gregor’s father seemed so obsessed with what he was doing that he forgot all the respect he owed to his tenants .

 Gregor's father staggered back to his seat, feeling his way with his hands, and fell into it . Gregor’s sister rushed to his mother and put her hand on her forehead . She broke out so heavily in tears that they flowed down the face of her mother .

 Gregor had no intention of frightening anyone, least of all his sister . All he had done was begin to turn round so that he could go back into his room . If it were Gregor he would have seen long ago that it’s not possible for human beings to live with an animal like that .

 Gregor was crawling through the door of his room when his sister stood up . He was hardly inside his room before the door was hurriedly shut, bolted and locked . Gregor could already hardly feel the decayed apple in his back .

 Mr. Samsa sat upright there in their marriage bed and had to get over the shock caused by the cleaner before they could grasp what she was saying . Grete, who had not taken her eyes from the corpse, said: “Just look how thin he was. He didn’t eat anything for so long."

 Mr. Samsa appeared in his uniform with his wife on one arm and his daughter on the other . The two women followed them out onto the landing .

 Mr. Samsa and Grete Samsa were writing a letter to a cleaner in the early hours of the morning . The cleaner stood in the doorway with a smile .

 Mr. and Mrs. Samsa were struck, almost simultaneously, with the thought of how their daughter was blossoming into a well built and beautiful young lady .




Iteration 1


 It was half past six and the hands were quietly moving forwards, it was even later than half past, more like quarter to seven . The next train went at seven .

 The office assistant was the boss’s man, spineless, and with no understanding . Gregor had wanted to give a full answer and explain everything, but contented himself with saying: “Yes, mother, yes, thank-you, I I am fine”

 Gregor told himself once more that it was not possible for him to stay in bed and that the most sensible thing to do would be to get free of it . Two strong people would have been more than enough to pull him from the bed and carry him over onto the floor . Gregor wondered why did he have to be the only one condemned to work for a company where people became suspicious at the slightest shortcoming?

 Gregor Samsa's idea of relaxation is working with his fretsaw . He sits with us in the kitchen and just reads the paper or studies train timetables . Gregor tried to imagine whether something of the sort that had happened to him today could ever happen to the chief clerk .

 Gregor tried to climb up on the smooth chest of drawers he just slid down again . Gregor was quite alright last night, my parents know about it, perhaps better than me . I had a small symptom of it last night already . Please, don't don't .

 Gregor bit on the key with all his strength, paying no attention to the pain he was causing himself . Gregor heard the chief clerk exclaim a loud ‘Oh!’ which sounded like the soughing of the wind . The washing up from breakfast lay on the table as Gregor's father sat reading newspapers .

 Gregor realised that it was out of the question to let the chief clerk go away in this mood . Chief clerk turned away as soon as Gregor started to speak, and, with protruding lips, only stared back at him over his trembling shoulders as he left . Gregor's mother was not far away in front of him and seemed engrossed in her work .

 Gregor was afraid that if he took the time to do so, he would have been back in his room straight away . Gregor pushed through the other of the double doors so that Gregor would have enough space to get through .

 Gregor passed in a light sleep, although he frequently woke from it in alarm because of his hunger . Gregor felt a great pride that he was able to provide a life like that in such a nice home for his sister and parents .

 Gregor watched with bulging eyes as his sister swept up the left-overs, mixing them in with the food he had not even touched at all as if it had been there . Gregor was seldom any conversation, especially at first, that was not about him in some way .

 Gregor had thought that nothing at all remained from his collection . Gregor only remained close to his sister now . Unlike him, she was very fond of music and a gifted and expressive violinist . Despite all their misfortunes there was still some money available from the old days .

 Gregor's father was healthy but old, and lacking self confidence . During the five years that he had not been working, he had put on a lot of weight . Gregor used to feel a great sense of freedom from doing this, but doing it now was obviously something more remembered than experienced .

 Gregor thought he glimpsed a look of gratitude one time when he carefully looked out from under the sheet to see how his sister liked the new arrangement . Gregor wanted to avoid being seen at the window during the day .

 Gregor realised that the lack of direct human communication, along with the monotonous life led by the family during these two months, must have made him confused . Gregor kept trying to assure himself that nothing unusual was happening, it was just a few pieces of furniture being moved after all, but he soon had to admit that .

 Gregor changed direction four times not knowing what he should save first . His attention was suddenly caught by the picture on the wall of the lady dressed in copious fur . Gregor was shut out from his mother, who, because of him, might be near to death .

 Gregor froze in shock when an apple flew down and rolled in front of him . There was no longer any point in running as his father had decided to bombard him with an apple . Gregor was amazed at the enormous size of the soles of his boots .

 Gregor’s father refused to take his uniform off even at home . Gregor had been reduced to the condition of an ancient invalid and it took him long, long minutes to crawl across his room . The household budget became even smaller; so now the maid was dismissed . Several items of jewellery belonging to the family had been sold .

 Gregor’s father brought bank employees breakfast, his mother washed clothes for strangers, his sister ran back and forth behind her desk at the behest of the customers . Gregor's sister no longer thought about how she could please him but would hurriedly push some food or other into his room with her foot before she rushed to her room .

 One of the rooms in the flat had been rented out to three gentlemen . Gregor was taken totally by surprise by the charwoman who opened the door slightly every evening and morning and looked briefly in on him .

 Gregor was determined to make his way to his sister and tug at her skirt to show her she might come into his room with her violin . Gregor’s father soon appeared with the music stand, his mother and his sister with the violin .

 Gregor’s father seemed so obsessed with what he was doing that he forgot all the respect he owed to his tenants . The violin went silent, the middle of the three gentlemen first smiled at his two friends, shaking his head, and then looked back at Gregor . Gregor's father staggered back to his seat, feeling his way with his hands, and fell into it .

 Gregor had no intention of frightening anyone, least of all his sister . He was hardly inside his room before the door was hurriedly shut, bolted and locked . Gregor could already hardly feel the decayed apple in his back .

 Mr. Samsa sat upright there in their marriage bed and had to get over the shock caused by the cleaner before they could grasp what she was saying . Grete, who had not taken her eyes from the corpse, said: “Just look how thin he was. He didn't eat anything for so long."

 Mr. Samsa and Grete Samsa were writing a letter to a cleaner in the early hours of the morning . The cleaner stood in the doorway with a smile . The couple were struck with the thought of how their daughter was blossoming into a beautiful young lady .




Iteration 2


 The office assistant was the boss’s man, spineless, and with no understanding . Gregor wanted to give a full answer and explain everything, but contented himself with saying: “Yes, mother, yes, thank-you, I I am fine”

 Two strong people would have been more than enough to pull him from the bed and carry him over onto the floor . Gregor wondered why did he have to be the only one condemned to work for a company where people became suspicious at the slightest shortcoming? Samsa's idea of relaxation is working with his fretsaw .

 Gregor bit on the key with all his strength, paying no attention to the pain he was causing himself . Gregor heard the chief clerk exclaim a loud ‘Oh!’ which sounded like the soughing of the wind . The washing up from breakfast lay on the table as Gregor's father sat reading newspapers .

 Gregor realised that it was out of the question to let the chief clerk go away in this mood . Chief clerk turned away as soon as Gregor started to speak, and, with protruding lips, only stared back at him over his trembling shoulders as he left . Gregor's mother was not far away in front of him and seemed engrossed in her work .

 Gregor watched with bulging eyes as his sister swept up the left-overs, mixing them in with the food he had not even touched at all as if it had been there . Gregor felt a great pride that he was able to provide a life like that in such a nice home for his sister and parents .

 Gregor had thought that nothing at all remained from his collection . Gregor only remained close to his sister now . Unlike him, she was a gifted and expressive violinist . Despite all their misfortunes there was still some money available from the old days .

 Gregor wanted to avoid being seen at the window during the day . Gregor realised that the lack of direct human communication, along with the monotonous life led by the family during these two months, must have made him confused . He thought he glimpsed a look of gratitude one time when he carefully looked out from under the sheet to see how his sister liked the new arrangement .

 Gregor changed direction four times not knowing what he should save first . His attention was suddenly caught by the picture on the wall of the lady dressed in copious fur . Gregor was shut out from his mother, who, because of him, might be near to death .

 Gregor had been reduced to the condition of an ancient invalid and it took him long, long minutes to crawl across his room . The household budget became even smaller; so now the maid was dismissed . Several items of jewellery belonging to the family had been sold .

 One of the rooms in the flat had been rented out to three gentlemen . Gregor was taken totally by surprise by the charwoman who opened the door slightly every evening and morning and looked briefly in on him . He was determined to make his way to his sister and tug at her skirt to show her she might come in with her violin .

 Gregor’s father seemed so obsessed with what he was doing that he forgot all the respect he owed to his tenants . The violin went silent, the middle of the three gentlemen first smiled at his two friends, shaking his head, and then looked back at Gregor . Gregor's father staggered back to his seat, feeling his way with his hands, and fell into it .

 Mr. Samsa and Grete Samsa were writing a letter to a cleaner in the early hours of the morning . The cleaner stood in the doorway with a smile . They were struck with the thought of how their daughter was blossoming into a beautiful young lady .




Iteration 3


 The office assistant was the boss’s man, spineless, and with no understanding . Gregor wanted to give a full answer and explain everything, but contented himself with saying: “Yes, mother, yes, thank-you, I am fine” Samsa's idea of relaxation is working with his fretsaw .

 Gregor heard the chief clerk exclaim a loud ‘Oh!’ which sounded like the soughing of the wind . Chief clerk turned away as soon as Gregor started to speak, and, with protruding lips, only stared back at him over his trembling shoulders as he left . Gregor's mother was not far away in front of him and seemed engrossed in her work .

 Gregor watched with bulging eyes as his sister swept up the left-overs, mixing them in with the food he had not even touched . Gregor felt a great pride that he was able to provide a life like that in such a nice home for his sister and parents .

 Gregor wanted to avoid being seen at the window during the day . Gregor realised that the lack of direct human communication, along with the monotonous life led by the family, must have made him confused . He thought he glimpsed a look of gratitude one time when he carefully looked out from under the sheet to see how his sister liked the new arrangement .

 Gregor had been reduced to the condition of an ancient invalid and it took him long, long minutes to crawl across his room . The household budget became even smaller; so now the maid was dismissed . Several items of jewellery belonging to the family had been sold .

 Gregor’s father seemed so obsessed with what he was doing that he forgot all the respect he owed to his tenants . The violin went silent, the middle of the three gentlemen first smiled at his two friends, shaking his head, and then looked back at Gregor .




Iteration 4


 Samsa's idea of relaxation is working with his fretsaw . The office assistant was the boss’s man, spineless and with no understanding .

 Gregor watched with bulging eyes as his sister swept up the left-overs, mixing them in with the food he had not even touched . Gregor felt a great pride that he was able to provide a life like that in such a nice home for his sister and parents .

 Gregor had been reduced to the condition of an ancient invalid and it took him long, long minutes to crawl across his room . The household budget became even smaller; so now the maid was dismissed . Several items of jewellery belonging to the family had been sold .




Iteration 5


 Gregor watched with bulging eyes as his sister swept up the left-overs, mixing them in with the food he had not even touched . Gregor felt a great pride that he was able to provide a nice home for his sister and parents .

 Gregor had been reduced to the condition of an ancient invalid and it took him long, long minutes to crawl across his room . The household budget became even smaller; so now the maid was dismissed . Several items of jewellery belonging to the family had been sold .




Iteration 6


 Gregor had been reduced to the condition of an ancient invalid and it took him long, long minutes to crawl across his room . The household budget became even smaller; so now the maid was dismissed . Several items of jewellery belonging to the family had been sold . Gregor felt great pride that he was able to provide a nice home for his sister and parents .
