



Iteration 0


 Samuel Beckett is in his mother's room and sleeps in her bed . He doesn't know how he got there but says he was helped by a man who comes every week . He says: 'I piss and shit in her pot. I have taken her place'

 "It was on a road remarkably bare, I mean without hedges or ditches or any kind of edge" cows were chewing in enormous fields, lying and stand- ing in the evening silence . The road, hard and white, seared the tender pastures, rose and fell at the whim of hills and hollows .

 Samuel Beckett and his friend stopped, face to face, on a deserted road . They turned towards the sea which, far in the east, loomed high in the waning sky . From there he must have seen it all, the plain, the sea and then these selfsame hills .

 "The man was innocent, greatly innocent, he had nothing to fear, though he went in fear" "It seemed to me he wore a cocked hat . It was a stout stick, he used it to thrust himself onward"

 The little dog followed wretchedly, after the fashion of pomeranians, stopping, turning in slow circles, giving up . Constipation is a sign of good health in pomerans .

 Willem de Klerk's novel is about a man on crutches who tries to catch up with a mangy dog . The author says he knew he could catch the man, he just had to want to .

 I understand now why I never wore a flower in my buttonhole, though it was large enough to hold a whole nosegay . My buttonhole was set aside for my hat . But it is neither of my hat nor of my greatcoat that I hope to speak at present, it would be premature'

 There is a little of everything, apparently, in nature, and freaks are common . And I, what was I doing there, and why come? These are things that we shall try and discover .

 "I was crippled though I was, I was no mean cyclist, at that period . I fastened my crutches to the cross-bar, one on either side . I propped the foot of my stiff leg on the projecting front axle . It was a chainless bicycle, with a free wheel, if such a bicycle exists .

 The author's mother never refused to see him. She never called him son, fortunately, he couldn't have borne it . When I had to part from my bicycle I took off the horn and kept it about me .

 "I called her Mag because for me, without my knowing' why the letter g abolished the syllable Ma . And at the same time I satisfied a deep and doubtless unacknowledged need, the need to have a Ma, Dan was my father’s name perhaps, yes, perhaps she took me for my father"

 'She must have thought I was saying no to her all the time, whereas nothing was further from my purpose' 'I forgive her for having jostled me a little in the first months' 'If ever I'm reduced to looking for a meaning to my life, it's in that old mess I'll stick my nose'

 Samuel Beckett was distraught, who am so seldom distraught, and as to my motions even more uncertain than usual . The night must have tired me, and the sun, hoisting itself higher and higher in the east, had poisoned me, while I slept .

 I was told that my way of resting, my attitude when at rest astride my bicycle, my arms on the handlebars, my head on my arms, was a violation of I don’t know what, public order, public decency . Modestly, I pointed to my crutches and ventured one or two noises regarding my

 Samuel BBCKETT was interrogated by a police official at a police station . The official had a straw hat on his head and protruding from his mouth was a thin flexible object .

 Molloy was told by the sergeant that he could not sit on his crutches because of his short leg . He said: 'They let me keep my hat on, I don't know why'

 The Salvation Army is no better than the Salvation Army . To him who has nothing it is forbidden not to relish filth . Social workers will pursue you to the ends of the earth, the vomitory in their hands .

 I used to be intelligent and quick. I had it to overflowing, the exasperated good-will of the over-anxious. So that my repertory of permitted attitudes has never ceased to grow. I have only been told what good behaviour is and I am well-behaved. If I have behaved like a pig, the fault

 Samuel Beckett was imprisoned in a barracks in China . Beckett says he has always cried out more or less openly .

 The MOLLOY 27 is a book of short stories written by the author . It is published by Simon & Schuster, priced £16.99 .

 28 SAMUEL BECKETT is published by Simon Cowell at the end of this week at the bottom of a ditch . "I wish I smelt like a sheep, or a buck-goat," writes the author .

 A shepherd and his dog were walking along the path . The shepherd asked the dog where they were going . The dog did not reply . The bleating grew faint because sheep were less anxious .

 'I had-neither taste nor humour, I lost them early on . In winter, under his greatcoat, I wrapped myself in swathes of newspaper' 'I counted them. Three hundred and fifteen farts in nine-teens hours'

 "I did not know if I was on one of those right roads and that disturbed me" "I had been living so far from words so long, you understand, that it was enough for me to see my town" "Even my sense of identity was wrapped in a namelessness often hard to penetrate"

 "I have never been particularly resolute, I mean given to resolutions, but rather inclined to plunge headlong, into the shit" "All I know is what the words know, and the dead things, and that makes a handsome little sum, with a beginning, a middle and an end"

 MOLLOY 33 was overtaken by a bloodthirsty mob of both sexes and all ages . But instead of grovelling in my turn, invoking my great age and infirmities, I made things worse by trying to run away .

 Samuel Beckett needed to help his mother get rid of her dog, and I needed her . "I too needed her, it seemed. She must have told me, for that was an insinuation I could not decently pass over"

 The dog was uniformly yellow, a mongrel I suppose, or a pedigree, I can never tell the difference . It was she dug the hole, under a tree, because I couldn’t, though I was the gentleman, because of my leg .

 All my life I have gone in terror of festered wounds, I who never festered, I was so acid . Loussc dug the hole while I held the dog in my arms . He smelt bad, if you like, but bad like an old dog, not like a dead dog .

 The dog had ticks in his ears, I have an eye for such things, they were buried with him . Funny she should have chosen, to bury her dog beneath, the only tree I can identify .

 "They had carried their impertinence to the point of washing me" "I went to the door. Locked. To the window. Barred. What is there left to try?" "The chimney perhaps"

 In the end it was magic that had the honour of my ruins, and still today, when I walk there, I find its vestiges . How difficult it is to speak of the moon and not lose one’s head, the witless moon .

 "I wither as the living can not. I will listen no longer, for the time being" "When I am there, my eyes close, my sufferings cease and I end" "I listen and the voice is of a world collapsing endlessly, a frozen world"

 SAMUEL BECKETT asks: Had there then elapsed, between that night on the mountain, that night when I saw A and C and then made up my mind to go and see my mother, and this other night, more time than I had thought?

 "The moon seen from Lousse’s house, far from being full, was in fact merely entering on its first quarter" "I vanish happy in that alien light, which must have once been mine, then the anguish of return"

 SAMUEL BECKETT is a 44-year-old British journalist and author . He says he pushed rather than struck them, thrust at them and lunged, and that is not pushing either, but it’s more like pushing than striking .

 "The boughs them- selves seemed to shift, as though endowed with an orbital velocity of their own" "My sucking-stone in particular was no longer there"

 'I no longer know what I»am doing, nor why, those are things I understand less and less, I don’t deny it' 'If I do not always appear to observe this principle it is because it escapes me from time to time, and vanishes'

 Lousse was in the garden, fussing around the grave . She was sowing grass on it, as if grass wouldn’t have sown itself on it . Seeing him, she came warmly towards him and gave him food and drink .

 SAMUEL BECKETT met Lousse in a garden in a town in the south of France . Lousse loved spike- lavender above all other herbs and flowers, because of its smell, and then also of its spikes .

 "She gathered this lavender when it bloomed I presume, left it to dry and then made it up into lavender-bags that she put in her cupboards to perfume her handkerkerkerchiefs, her underclothing and house-linen . And all the time she never stopped talking, whereas I only opened my mouth

 'I was the precarious calm, the thaw of the snows which make no differ- ence and all the horrors of it all over again' The words engraved themselves for ever on my memory, perhaps because V understood them at .

 "I mis- judged the distance separating me from the other world, and often I stretched out my hand for what was far beyond my reach . I would have been an excellent husband, incapable of wearying of my wife and committing adultery only from absent- absent-minded . "

 'I helped neither in the house nor the garden and knew nothing of what work was going forward, day and night, nothing save the sounds that came to me' 'I preferred the garden to the house, to judge by the long hours I spent there'

 Never did I see a woman within these precincts, and by precincts I do not merely mean the precincts . The garden was surrounded with a high wall, its top bristling with broken glass like fins . The wall was broken by a wicket-gate giving free access to the road .

 'I accuse her without ill-feeling of having drugged my food and drink with noxious and insipid powders and potions' 'Even sipid they would have made no difference, I would have swallowed it all down with same whole-heartedness'

 "From time to time I caught myself making a bound in the air, two or three feet off the ground at least . And it happened too, less surprisingly, when I was walking, or even propped up against some- thing, that I suddenly collapsed, like a puppet when its strings are dropped .

 "With Lousse my health got no worse, or scarcely . By which I mean that what was already wrong with me got worse and worse, little by little . But there was kind'ed no new seat of suffering or infection."

 "She had a hole between her legs, oh not the bunghole I had always imagined, but a slit, and in this I put, or rather she put, my so-called virile member, not without difficulty . It was she made me acquainted with love," he writes .

 Edith gave me money after each session, to me who would have consented to probe it to the bottom . She had a dainty flat, it made you want to lie down in a corner and never get up again .

 "My mother's image sometimes mingles with theirs, which is literally unendurable, like being crucified . And I am quite willing to go on thinking of her as an old woman, widowed and withered"

 "Not knowing where I was nor consequently what way I ought to go I went with the wind" "I entered the first shelter I came to and stayed there till dawn, for I knew I was bound to be stopped by the first policeman and asked what I was doing"

 A fine rain was falling and I took off my hat to give my skull the benefit of it, my skull all cracked and furrowed and on fire, on fire . But I also took it off because it was digging into my neck, because of the thrust of the wall .

 Samuel Beckett's diary is written when he is in pain . Beckett writes that his legs are as stiff as a life-sentence .

 Molloy met a young old man shivering all alone in a narrow doorway . He stood beside him, with the air, he hoped, of one jvho says . Many a one must have said. They arc right, I am wrong, meaning by they the category to which he did not belong .

 Samuel BECKBTT could never bring himself to sell it, even in his worst need, for he could never understand what possible purpose it could serve . For a certain time I think it inspired me with a kind of veneration . There is rapture, or there should be, in the motion crutches give .

 "I came' to the ramparts as night was fall- ing, having described a good quarter of a circle, through bad navi- gation" Molloy lost interest in knowing, among other things, what town he was in and if he should soon find my mother .

 Molloy says he never noticed anything of the kind, but however far he went, it was al- ways the same sky, always the same earth . "When I see my hands, on the sheet, which they love to floccillate already, they arc not mine, less than ever mine, I have no arms"

 Author spent the night in the desert before setting out on his journey . He describes the night as 'nauseating but not pestilent, less rat than toad' Day is the time for lynching, for sleep is sacred and especially the morning .

 'For the monster on the move, or on the watch, lurking in his lair, there is no mercy . For the hunter is weak at heart and senti- mental, overflowing with repressed treasures of gentleness and com- passion'

 "I once went forth on it, in a sort of oarless skiff, but I paddled with an old bit of driftwood . And I sometimes wonder if I ever came back, from that voyage . For I have always said. First learn to walk, then you can take swimming lessons .

 70 SAMUEL BECKETT. replaced the stones by the four in the right pocket of his trousers . He then replaced the four remaining stones in the left pocket with the four from the right .

 "I could double the number of my pockets, were it only by dividing each pocket in two, with the help of a few safety-pins . One day suddenly it dawned on the former, dimly, that I might perhaps achieve my purpose"

 "All (all!) that was necessary was to put for example, to begin with, six stones in the right pocket of my great- 72 SAMUEL BECKETT coat, or supply-pocket . Five in the left pocket of his greatcoat, which for the time being remained empty .

 MOLLOY 73 series of sucks and transfers starts with the first six stones back in the supply pocket . First, seventh and twelfth for example of the first cycle might very well be the sixth, eleventh and sixteenth respec- tively of the second .

 'I suck the stones in the way I have described, not haphazard, but with method, was also I think a bodily need' 'Deep down I didn’t give a tinker’s curse about being off my balance'

 'The black speck I was, in the great pale stretch of sand, who could wish it harm?' 'My good eye saw more clearly and there were even days when the bad one too had to look away' 'To be taken unawares was so to speak impossible, for I turned often towards the land too'

 Samuel Beckett lived in a cave in the middle of a swamp between his town and the sea . There was always talk of draining, by means of canals, or of transforming into a vast port and docks .

 'I didn’t know which foot to land on, when I came down' 'The two legs shorten at the same time, but when one shortens, and the other not, then you begin to be worried'

 Author was on crutches for most of his life due to a broken leg . He says the pain of his leg at rest was constant and monoto- nous . But the pain inflicted by work was suspended for an instant .

 "I could count the days when I could neither breathe in the blessed air with its life-giving oxygen nor, when I had breathed it in, breathe out the bloody stuff, I could have counted" "The noise betrayed me, I turned purple" "Not a word, not a word against the crises that seized me, wr wr wr

 "I apologise for having to revert to this lewd orifice, 'tis my muse will have it so. Perhaps it is less to be thought of as the eyesore here called by its name *han as the symbol of those passed over"

 "My health which, if it was not exactly rude, to the extent of my bursting with it, was at bottom of an incredible robustness . No, my true weak points were else- where- where. cramp. My prepuce, sat verbum, oozes urine, day and night, at least I think it’

 "I can’t shake off the feeling that the day will come for me to say what is left of all I had" "There were days when my legs were the best part of me" "It is too late now to do anything about it, that I have laid too much stress on my legs"

 "The forest was all about me and the boughs, twining together at a prodigious height, compared to mine" "I might have loved him, I think, if I had been seventy years younger, but it's not certain" "Some days I advanced no more than thirty or forty paces, I give you my oath

 Beckett: "I swung, that’s all that matters, in an ever-widening arc" Beckett met a stranger in the forest . He asked him to show him the way to the nearest town . Beckett held him back by the sleeve when he made to go .

 When a man in a forest thinks he is going forward in a straight line, in reality he is . going in a circle . And by going on doing this, day after day, and night after night, I looked forward to getting out of the forest, some day . For I stopped being half-witted and became sly, whenever I

 "I considered that the forest was no worse then. And it was not only no worse, to my mind, but it w£s better, in this sense, that I was there" "I could have stayed there till I died, unrepining, yes"

 Molloy 87: The voice which deserted me was partly to blame, that's all it can be reproached with . For the outer world opposed my suc- ceeding too, with its wiles .

 "I am merely complying with the convention that demands you either lie or hold your peace" "I did not say. Yet a little while, at the rate things are going, etc., but that resembled perhaps what I would have said, if I had been able"

 A horn goes well with the forest, you expect it. Even a tom-tom, at a pinch, would not have shocked me. It was mortify- ing to have been looking forward to the celebrated murmurs .

 "When you want to rest you stop and rest, without further ado," he writes . "For standing there is no rest, nor sitting either, but he who moves in this way, crawling on his belly, like a reptile"

 "I suppose you have to try everything once, succour included, to get a complete picture of the resources of their planet" I suppose it v/as the fall into the ditch that opened my eyes, for why would they have opened otherwise?

 Moran was savour- ing the day of rest, while deploring the importance attached to it, in certain parishes . To work, even to play on Sunday was not of necessity reprehensible, in his opinion .

 Samuel Beckett was not a neighbor but had journeyed from afar on purpose to disturb me . He was dressed in his heavy, sombre Sunday best, and at this my displeasure knew no bounds . Gaber's son was spying on them from behind a bush .

 Moran cried, but he’s out of his mind! Your son goes with you, said Gaber . Jacques went away grumb- ling with his finger in his mouth, a detestable and unhygienic habit, but preferable, all things considered, to that of the finger in the nose .

 "I was sometimes inclined to go too far when I reprimanded my son, who was con- sequently a little afraid of me" Anything in the nature of surveillance was hateful to Father Ambrose .

 The eucharist produced the same effect, taken on top of beer, however light? I could always try . I decided to suck a few peppermints on the way to the presbytery . Moran had not yet begun to take the matter seriously .

 Gaber was a free-thinker. He knew my habits, my Sunday habits . Should I set out on my autocycle? I felt a great confusion coming over me .

 My son burst in wanting to know if he might go out. Where? Out! Vagueness I abhor. And yet there is not an elm to be seen in it . To try and solve the problem of transport under such conditions was madness .

 Sunday for me without the Body and Blood is like — . Above all no profane comparisons, he said . Perhaps he was thinking of the kiss without a moustache .

 Father Ambrose sent for a portable pyx, opened it, and dispatched me . He informed me that Mrs Clement, the chemist’s wife, had fallen, in her laboratory, from the top of a ladder, and broken the neck .

 The interview with Father Ambrose left me with a painful impression . He was still the same dear man, and yet not nobility . "My life was running out, I knew not through what breach I might have known"

 My son had a way of saying papa, when he wanted to hurt me, that was very special . His face took on an expression of anguished attention . We leave this evening, I said in substance, on a journey . Put in your little knapsack, the one I gave you for your birthday, your toilet things,

 My son had drawn a small glass from his pocket and was examining the inside of his mouth . He was not worthy of me, not in the same class at all, I could not escape this conclusion . I rang for Martha and lay down again, but she looked at me in astonishment .

 The Eisner sisters were not bad neighbours, as neigh- bours go . They made a little too much music, that was the only fault I cr ild find with them . Crouching down I would stroke his ears, through the railings, and utter wheedling words .

 Gaber understood nothing about the messages he carried . His memory was so bad that his messages had no existence in his head, but only in his notebook . Molloy used a code incomprehensible to all but himself .

 Samuel Beckett was a member of a secret organisation . He says he and Gaber thought they were the only ones of their kind . Martha was sitting in her rocking chair, in the chimney-corner, rocking herself moodily .

 Molly's weekly supply of lager, half-a-dozen quart bottles, was delivered every Saturday . Of these six bottles Gaber and I, together, had emptied one . There should be five left, plus the remains of a bottle from previous week .

 Samuel Beckett's mother took the albums and withdrew, without a word . The sight went straight to my heart, but nevertheless I did my duty . Anger should be left to cool, in my opinion, crisis to pass, before one operates . Sollst entbehren, that was the lesson I desired to impress upon him, while he

 "After dinner I drowse, I took off my coat and shoes, opened my trousers and got in between the sheets . It is in the warmth, in the gloom, that I best pierce the outer turmoil's veil."

 Molloy, or Mollose, was no stranger to me. If I had had colleagues, I might have suspected I had spoken of him to them . But I had no colleagues and knew nothing of the circumstances in which I had learnt of his existence . Perhaps I had invented him, I mean found him ready-made in my head

 Mol, or oc. Mol, was doubtless that my mind had a weakness for this ending, whereas the others left it cold . Mol swayed, to and fro, like a bear . He rolled his head, uttering incomprehensible words .

 "I was unable to conceive what had brought him to such a pass, I was no better able to conceive how, left to his own resources, he could put an end to it," he writes . "Images of this kind the will cannot revive without doing them violence"

 The sound of a gong, struck with violence, filled the house . It seemed as if the enquiry were about to start at last . Would not this fifth Molloy necessarily coincide with the fourth?

 Anger led me sometimes to slight excesses of language, I could not regret them . Naturally I con- fessed them to Martha and laughed so much I began to hiccup . Not only had the rain stopped, but in the west scarves of fine red sheen were mount- ing in the sky .

 SAMUEL BECKBTT's son said he had not told Martha we were leaving . He pretended not to know what I was talking about . He was wrong to invoke the pic. dish . But he was still young .

 Father Ambrose gave his son an enema, with salt water, but he struggled, but not for long . Since dinner is uneatable, he said, be good enough to prepare a packet of sandwiches .

 Martha watched me in silence, lolling in her rocking chair . How can you hope to shit, i said, when you’ve nothing in your stomach? He protested he had had his lunch . I rubbed the iodex into my knee. The knee is full of little loose bones .

 Martha had been a long time in my service. I was often away from home. Sometimes I departed without a word to her. I reproached myself with this negligence. I dissolved a sleeping-pow- der in the milk .

 Samuel Beckett was so concerned he took his son's favourite stamps . The Togo one mark carm! 10 with the pretty boat, the Nyassa 1901 ten reis and several others were found .

 My son’s window was faintly lit. He liked sleeping with a night-light beside him . Others concerned the dog Zulu, the perfumes Sharpened tenfold by the rain .

 Moran made ready to go without knowing where he was going, having consulted neither map nor time-table . Moran had only the vaguest notion of the outfit he would need, the time the expedition was likely to take and the money he would require .

 Conspicuousness is the A B C of my profession . To call forth feelings of pity and indulgence is indispensable . There is something about a father that discourages derision .

 A massive chain, attached to my braces, prevents me from losing them . This chain lies, coiled, on the bunch, in my pocket . Its weight gives me a list to the right, when I am tired, or when I forget it .

 'Shame on you, I cried, you ill-bred little pig! I would get angry if I were not careful' SAMUEL BECKETT's son was crying when he left his room . Samuel was still young, the words of reproach died on my lips .

 I used to think I loved my trees, bushes, flower-beds, my tiny lawns . If I sometimes cut a branch, a flower, it was solely for their good . And I never did it without a pang. I grew no vegetables . I had long since given up going for walks with my son .

 With me he invariably took the wrong turn, a crossing or a simple corner was all he needed to stray from the right road . I toyed briefly with the idea of attaching him to me by means of a long rope . We should have needed not the soft silent rope, but a chain, which was not to be dreamt of .

 "I tell you to keep behind me and you go before me, I said . But already I was called elsewhere by the image of my son no longer behind me, but before me . His school cap was green with initials and a boar's head, or a deer's, in gold braid on the front .

 "He would doubtless at that moment with pleasure have cut my throat, with that selfsame knife I was putting so placidly in my pocket . But he was still a little on the young side, my son, for the great deeds of vengeance"

 "I follow it none the less, more or less, I follow it in this sense, that I know what it means," he writes . "And I feel I shall follow it from this day forth, no matter what it commands"

 Molloy Y 133 is a novel about the life of a young man in England . It was written by the author of the novel .

 Samuel Beckett was born and raised in a small market-town called Bally in the north of the country . The principal beauty of this region was a kind of strangled creek .

 The population of Ballyba was small. The land did not lend itself to cultiva- tion. The pastures were exceedingly meagre and strewn with boulders . Only quitchweed grew in abundance .

 "The right thing would have been to travel by night and hide during the day . But the weather was so fine I could not bring myself to do it" "I felt he must have told me what to do with Molloy once he was found"

 Samuel Beckett never saw one of them again, subsequently, not a single one . The directions which Gabcr must have given me with reference to this had gone clean out of my head . I don’t know what became of him. I lost interest in my patients .

 The sensation could indeed well be compared to that of a blow such as a horse’s hoof might give . I waited anxiously for it to recur, motionless and hardly breathing, and sweat- ing . But sure enough the pain did recur a few minutes later, but not so bad as the first time .

 "I despaired at first ever bending my leg again and then, through sheer determination, did succeed in bending it, slightly . The pain, having warned me several times in vain, had no more to say"

 When you can neither stand nor sit with comfort, you take refuge in the horizontal, like a child in its mother’s lap . You explore it as never before and find it possessed of unsuspected delights .

 SAMUEL BECKETT told him to go to Hole, he said, and buy a bicycle . I asked him if he was pleased. He did not look pleased. Perhaps he was hiding the ten shillings up his sleeve, or in his mouth . Besides I was not ill. I should have had to get up and search

 Did I know how much I had spent? No. Usually I kept the most rigorous accounts when away on business . This time no. For I was throwing my money away with as little concern as if I had been travelling for pleasure . Do you imagine a second-hand bicycle costs four pounds ten?

 Jacques Moran sent his son to buy a bicycle in Hole, the nearest town in Turdy . Moran: Are you not pleased, I said, to have a nice brand-new bicycle, all your own?

 The day seemed very long. I missed myself as best I could . I reached up above my head and broke off a bough and hurled it violently in the air . I hope he enjoyed it .

 After ten or eleven steps a great weariness seized hold of my leg, a heaviness rather, and I had to stop . I saw a man a few paces off, standing motionless in a shelter . He wore a coat much too heavy for the time of the year . There was a coldness in his stare, and a cold

 His accent was that of a foreigner or of one who had lost the habit of speech . I expected him to devour it there and then . But he broke it in two and put the pieces in his coat-pockets .

 Moran's leg was perhaps a little worse, without my being in a condition to realize it . "I no longer confined myself to circling about the shelter, as I had done the previous day" "I found that when I leaned upon it the heaviness in my leg, due probably to a defect in the bloodstream, disappeared even more quickly than

 "What I saw was more like a crumbling, a frenzied collapsing of all that had always protected me from all I was condemned to be. again" "I seemed to see myself ageing as swiftly as a day-fly"

 Samuel Beckett was stranded in the middle of the English countryside when he was hailed by a man on his way home from work . Beckett had been unable to find a way back to the UK and was running out of food . He was trying to renew his provisions when he heard a man outside .

 Molloy 151 was precisely the kind of pest I thought he was, without being sure, because of the dark . He wore a thick navy-blue suit (double-breasted) of hideous cut and a pair of out-rageously wide black shoes . The fringed extremities of a dark muffler, seven feet long at the

 Samuel Beckett found his friend stretched on the ground, his head in a pulp . Beckett dragged him by the ankles and dragged him backwards into the shelter . "I dismantled the shelter and threw the branches over the body"

 "I wiped each key on the grass, before putting it in my pocket, whether it needed wiping" "While looking in this way for my keys I found an ear which I threw into the copse" "There is no use my counting them, for I do not know how many there were"

 "I made myself as comfortable as possible. I got rid of my various burdens and I ate a whole tin of sardines and one apple" "To kill time I asked myself a certain number of questions"

 "I declare the foregoing to have been written with a firm and even satisfied hand, and a mind calmer than it has been for a long time . For I shall be far away, before these lines are read, in a place where no one will dream of coming to look for me"

 The dirty little twister was letting the air escape between the valve and the con- nection which he had purposely not screwed tight . He took a bar of chocolate from his pocket and offered it to me . Instead of eating it, as I longed to, I cast it from me .

 Samuel Beckett's son straddled the frame of his bicycle when the back wheel buckled and we fell . He followed, half dragged, half hopping . I trembled for my testicles . Happily it was the sick leg .

 A flock of black shorn sheep strayed about them, unafraid . A shepherd watched me as I came, without getting up . The silence was absolute . I would not have got there without my son .

 "I longed to say. Take me with you, I will serve you faithfully, just for a place to lie and a little me" But when I moved I saw nothing but the ground and the play of my feet . The sheep were losing interest in me .

 For waking early I found myself alone, in the shelter . I watched the man in front, then the sheep, huddled together, their heads sunk, jostling. At the time it must have seemed a scene like any other, that’s all I know. But the next day I realised my mistake .

 Samuel Beckett's son went through his pockets before he left . He left him with his bag, umbrella and fifteen shillings .

 "At the thought of the punishments Youdi might inflict upon me I was seized by such a fit of laughter" "I shook, with mighty silent laughter . For several days I had eaten nothing. I could probably have found blackberries and mushrooms, but I had no wish for them"

 Moran found Gaber sitting on a tree-stump, half asleep and half asleep . Moran took a small electric torch from his pocket and shone it on his page . He read Moran, Jacques, home, instanter. Do you recognise me? I cried .

 Gaber kept rubbing his hands from morning to night, I can hear them in the outer room, said Gaber . Moran, he said, you are beginning to give me a serious pain in the arse . Gaber said, 'I'll be going, if that's all you have to say to me' Moran overtook him,

 Samuel Beckett set out on a quest to walk from Ballyba to Dublin . He stopped when he could go no further . Anyone else would have lain down in the snow, firmly re- solved never to rise again .

 Certain questions of a theological nature preoccupied me strangely . Disease, whatever it was, was dormant! How can such things be? I like to think of those that hatch out at the beginning of winter, within doors, and die shortly after .

 Is it true that the devils do not feel the pains of hell? What was God doing with himself before the creation? Might not the beatific vision become a source of boredom in the long run? What is one to think of the excommunication of vermin in the sixteenth century?

 170 SAMUEL BECKETT says purpose of the hum 'is not to emphasise the dance, but on the contrary to vary it' The dance was best to be observed among the bees re-turning to the hive, laden more or less with nectar .

 'I would never do my bees the wrong I had done my God,' he writes . 'I have spoken of a voice giving me orders, or rather advice' 'I not only knew who I was, but I had a sharper and clearer sense of my identity than ever before"

 When it rained, when it snowed, then I found myself faced with the following dilemma . Was I to go on leaning on my umbrella and get drenched or was I to stop and take shelter under my open umbrella? It was a false dilemma, as so many dilemmas are . At the sight of the blue flesh, between

 Molloy spent two. boughs. preferring the shelter of my faithful umbrella . When it was clear that the rain, etc., would not stop all day, or all night, then I did the sensible thing and built a proper shelter .

 'It’s thanks to her I lost my infant boy, I said, and kept his mamma' 'Such sentiments could not fail to please a cattle breeder'

 Moran took a florin from his pocket and gave it to him for your poor-box . Moran took himself off telling me to stay where I was . The key went into the hole, but would not turn . I drew back to the other side of the lane and hurled myself at it .

 This time a year ago I was setting out. One day I received a visit from Gaber. He wanted the report. Perhaps I shall meet Molloy. My knee is no better. It is no worse either . The company had cat off the light. They have offered to let me have it back. But I told them they could

 L was always content, knowing I would be. But in the end I understood this language. I understood it, I understand it, all wrong perhaps . Does this mean I am freer now than I was? I do not know. I shall learn .

 "I wish them all an atrocious life and then the fires and ice of hell and in the execrable generations to come an honoured name" "I shall not answer any more questions. I shtdl even try not to ask myself any more"

 "I think that is everything. Perhaps 1 shall put the man and the woman in the same story, there is so little difference between a man and a woman" Beckett will start with his stories of a man, another about a woman, a third about a thing and finally one about an item .

 "It is playtime now. The old fog calls" "I shall play with all the more ardour afterwards. And it will be a pendant to the inventory"

 Samuel Beckett fainting in an ambulance has left no trace on his mind . He does not remember how he got to the hospital . But who has not experienced such lapses?

 When I have completed my inventory, if my death is not ready for me then, I shall write my memoirs . The moon has grown familiar, I am well familiar with her changes of aspect and orbit . And all sorts of birds come and perch on the window-sill, asking for food . There is a cupboard I have

 "I am never hot, never cold. I don't wash, but I don’t get dirty. If I get dirty somewhere I rub the part with my finger wet with spittle" "I don't know how long I have been here, I must have said so"

 "I tremble a little, but only a little" "Sometimes I miss not being able to crawl around any more" "My body is what is called, unadvisedly perhaps, impotent" "There is virtually nothing it can do"

 Mr. Saposcat used to say to his wife, I really must find work for the evenings and the Saturday after- noon. And the Sunday. But if you do any more work you’ll fall ill. The life of the Saposcats was full of axioms .

 Saposcat took over the erroneous figure, murmuring it over and over to himself . Sometimes he stated wearily his regret that his son should not be more eager to make himself useful . They did not know why he was committed to a liberal profession .

 Samuel Beckett wrote a book about his life . The book is called 'Sapo' and is published by Simon & Schuster . It is about a young man's life .

 Samuel Beckett was a simpleton, but he loved the flight of the hawk . He would stand rapt, gazing at the long pernings, the quivering poise, the wings lifted for the plummet .

 Mr. Sapo's phlegm, his silent ways, were not of a nature to please . His dream was less of girls than of himself, his own life .

 Adrian Beckett was a patient, reasonable child, avid of the least gleam, a stranger to the joys of darkness . Here is the air I needed, a lively tenuous air, far from the murk that is killing me .

 "Sapo was born grave as others syphilitic. All alone, well hidden, played the clown, all alone, hour after hour"

 Samuel Beckett wrote of his experiences in a letter to a friend . Beckett said he tried to live without knowing what he was trying . "Perhaps I have lived after all, without knowing," he said .

 "I want, when the great day comes, to be in a position to enounce clearly, without addition or omission" "I have rummaged a little in my things, sorting them out and drawing them over to me, to look at them"

 SAMUEL BECKETT writes about his time in India and his time is limited . He dis-covered a packet tied up in age-yellowed newspaper .

 Kaspar David Friedrich loved a tempestuous and bright night . "I am buried in the world, I knew I would find my place there one day"

 The Lamberts found it difficult to live, I mean to make ends meet . The father was known as Big Lambert, and big he was indeed . He often spoke of his father with respect and tender- ness . His like will not be seen again, he used to say .

 Lambert's farm was in a hollow, flooded in winter and in summer burnt to a cinder . Lambert's son, or heir, was a great strapping lad with terrible teeth . Lambert could speak of nothing but the pig he had just dispatched .

 The 4 voman, pausing an instant between two tasks, or in the midst of one, flung up her arms and, in the same breath, let them fall again . Then she began to toss them about in a way difficult to describe, and not easy to understand . The movements resembled those, at once frantic and slack, of an

 Sapo remained alone, by the window, the bowl of goat’s milk on the table before him, forgotten . The ticking of the invisible alarm clock was as the voice of that silence .

 Sapo spent long hours in that old kitchen where, neither quite indoors nor quite out of doors, he waited to be on his feet again . Among those who must have known, some arc dead and the others have forgotten .

 The Lamberts saw Sapo, from far off or from near by, suddenly emerge from behind the washing and set off down the path . They did not try to detain him or even call goodbye, unresentful at his leaving them . They knew he meant no harm .

 "The face of Sapo as he stumbled away was as always grave, or rather expressionless" "The sound I liked best had nothing noble about it. It was the barking of the dogs, at night" "When he halted it was not the better to think, or the closer to pore upon his dream, but simply because the

 SAMUEL BECKETT writes about himself with the same pencil and in the same exercise-book as about about about himself . He has a minimum of memory is indispensable, if one is to live really . "For a long time now I have been hearing things confusedly," he writes .

 "It is because it is no longer I, I must have said so long ago, but another whose life is just beginning . That is my excuse. But there must be others, no less excellent . It is right that he too should have his little chronicle, his memories, his reason .

 "I seem to have written it somewhere before, or spoken it, word for word" "From now on I shall write on both sides of the page"

 Mr. Saposcat sold himself a fountain-pen, at a dis- count. year . He cried, as she made to take it in her hand .

 Sapo arrived at the farm earlier than usual . He was surprised to see, at a distance, the father’s big red and white head . His bodj- was in the hole or pit he had dug for his mule which had died .

 Big Lambert sat by the window, smoking, drinking, watching his son Sapo . Sapo sat down before him, laid his hand on the table and his head on his hand . Edmund paused to rest, leaned panting on the spade and smiled .

 Edmund and his mother passed each other by in silence . Edmund would soon be able to plough and harrow the place where it lay . Seeing Sapo she first thought he was her daughter .

 Lambert's son Sapo, attracted by the savoury smell, entered the kitchen . Lambert declared. I’ll kill Whitey tpmorrow. Those of course were not the words he used, but thai was the Thai .

 Edmund went up to bed, so as to masturbate in peace and comfort before his sister joined him . Neither his wife nor his son could approve him . Lambert sat watch- ing her . She was crouched before the range, in an attitude of dejection .

 Mrs. Lambert was alone in the kitchen . She sat down by the window and turned down the wick of the lamp . Her mind was a press of formless questions .

 The author was once in love with a parrot . He tried to teach it to say 'Nihil in intellects etc. agree' Suave mari magno, especially for the old salt .

 "I honestly believe that in this house there are people coming and going and »even conversing, and multitudes of fine babies . There is naturally another possibility that does not escape me, though it would be a great disappointment that is that I am dead already .

 "My horse-sense tells me I have not yet quite ceased to gasp" "I enjoy a kind of night and day, admittedly, often it is pitch dark, but in rather a different way" "The light, instead of being the dawn, turned out in a very short time to be the dusk"

 There is really no colour in this place, except in so far as this kind of grey incandescence may be called a colour . The noises too, cries, steps, doors, murmurs, cease for whole days, their days .

 Mv stick lacks a little prehensile proboscis like the nocturnal tapir’s . I have spent two un- forgettable days of which nothing will ever be known .

 "I use the two points turn and turn about, sucking them frequently, I love to suck" "I strip them with my nails which are long, yellow, sharp and brittle" "The day is fast approaching when nothing will remain but a fragment too tiny to hold"

 "I can even distinctly remember the paper- hangings or wall-paper still clinging in places to the walls and covered with a writhing mass of roses, violets and other flowers"

 SAMUEL BECKETT has the brainwave to live long enough to get acquainted with free carbonic gas . "I have felt so many strange things, so many baseless things assuredly, that they are perhaps better left unsaid"

 "I was never happy, but wishing night would never end and morning never come" "I shall go on doing as I have always done, not knowing what it is I do, nor who I am, nor where I am"

 'I was always a great man for apples, to be had almost for the whinging if you knew your way about'

 The coat, when new, was of a fine plain green colour, what you might call cab green . But perhaps l am wrong to call this coat a greatcoat and perhaps I should rather call it an overcoat or even cover-me-down . The material of this coat looks like felt, and the various dints and bulges inflicted

 It would not surprise me to learn that this hat once belonged to a sporting gentleman . The trouble is he does not stir. Since morning he has been here and now it is evening . The tugs, the black funnels striped with red, tow to their moorings .

 At this hour then erotic craving accounts for the majority of couples . Some even take a cab to get more quickly to the rendezvous . Then the drowsiness, the little memorandum book with its little special pencil, the yawned goodbyes . Then you see the last stage .

 The 232 SAMUEL BECKETT place is 232 Samuel BECKett place, by the shortest route or deviously . For Macmann it is a true spring evening, an equinoctial gale howls along the quays bordered by high red houses .

 In order not to die you must come and go . Unless you happen to have someone who brings you food . And you can remain MALONE DIES 233 for two, three and even four days without stirring hand or foot .

 Samuel Beckett's eyes stare into the fulness of the great deep and its unchanging calm . At long intervals they close, with gentle suddenness of flesh that tightens, often without anger, and closes on itself .

 "I believe I have now reached what is called the month of May, for May comes from Maia, hell, I remember that too, goddess of increase and plenty" At hand, that is in two or three days, in the language of the days .

 Samuel Beckett has written 236 books . He is currently living in a small apartment in New York City . Beckett says he fits in the room as well as he can .

 "I simply believe I can say nothing that is not true, I mean that has not happened, it’s not the same thing but no matter," Bob says . "If I ever stop talking it will be because there is nothing more to be said," he says .

 "I should like to find a hole in the wall behind which so much goes on" "What strikes me to begin with is how much rounder it is than it was" "It is time for this to stop. After all this window is whatever I want it to be"

 There are three of them, and how it sways and totters, but rather poor in colour . Perhaps they are cold, that they rub against each other so, for friction maintains heat and brings it back when it's gone .

 Macmann fancied that the nape of the neck and the back right down to the loins were more vulnerable than the chest and belly .

 'He could not see as his true sin, but as yet another atonement which had miscarried and plunged him in it deeper than before' 'And it was often in fear and trembling that he suffered, saying, 'This will cost me dear' 'Rain pelted down on his back with the sound first of a drum, but in

 Macmann's link with his species was through fiis ascendants only, who were all dead . But the better late than never thanks to which true men can acknowledge the error of their ways and hasten on to the next .

 When lying on your stomach in a wild and practically illimitable part of the country, you turn over on your back, then there is a sideways movement of the whole body, including the head . In the midst of his suffering, for one does not remain so long in such a position with- out being incommoded, he began to

 SAMUEL BECKETT was more reptile than bird and could suffer mutilation and survive . People are never content to suffer, but they must have heat and cold, rain and its contrary which is fine weather .

 He could no longer distinguish plants destined for the embellishment of the home from weeds . He could never count on any other craft than his own, any other strength, to go from morning to evening and then from evening to morning without mortal hurt .

 Samuel Beckett had to do a great part of his life's work with his bare hands . At the end of the day, one could see the peels of oranges and bananas, cigarette-butts, cigarettes and scraps of paper .

 Macmann was incapable of picking his steps and choosing where to put down his feet . The rain ttill falling with unabated violence in spite of his having turned over on his back, Macmann grew rest- less .

 Samuel Beckett's latest book, 248, is published by Simon & Schuster . The book is based on Becket's experiences in Spain .

 There it was, in the grass, thrown away because it could no longer serve, the stem having broken off (I suddenly remember that) just short of the bowl . Perhaps I thought it pretty, or felt for it that foul feeling of pity I have so often felt in the presence of things . Round the shank, between the two cor

 I loved to finger and caress the hard shapely objects that were there in my deep pockets, it was my way of talking to them and reassuring them . Or I buried them, or threw them into the sea, with all my strength as far as possible from the land . In this way I disposed of things I loved but could no longer

 "I can’t help it, I must state the facts, without trying to understand, to the end" "I wonder what my last words will be, written, but the others do not endure, but vanish, into thin air . Only those things are mine the whereabouts of which I know well enough to be"

 "If it was my hat I might put it on, that would remind me of the good old days, though I remember them sufficiently well . It is perhaps the only object in my possession the history of which I have not forgotten . Samuel Beckett has been in this room long enough to know that some things go out, and other things come

 "The ocean looks unnatural that you’d think you were in a studio, but is it not rather the reverse 1 should say?"

 Now that I have stopped eating I produce less waste and so eliminate less . The pots do not seem to be mine, I simply have the use of them . It is my possessions have weakened me, if I start talking about them again I shall .

 "I wonder if I could not contrive, wielding my stick like a punt-pole, to move my bed . It may well be on castors, many beds are" "I have spoken softly, gone my ways softly, all my days"

 The stick, having slipped, would have plucked me from the bed if I had not let it go . I suppose the wisest thing now is to live it over again, meditate upon it and be edified .

 "I did well to stop my inventory, it was a happy thought" "I feel less weak, perhaps they fed me while I slept" "Nothing is mine any more, according to my definition, except my exercise-book, my lead and the French pencil, assuming it really exists"

 A woman’s voice, extraordinarily shrill and unpleasant, was heard to say, Mann, his name is Macmann . Macmann did not immediately grasp that he was being spoken to . The room, or cell, in which he lay, was thronged with men and women dressed in white .

 The thin yellow arms contorted by some kind of bone deformation were at first sight her most revolting features . She wore by way of earrings two long ivory crucifixes which swayed wildly at the least movement of her head .

 Macmann's clothes, cleaned, pressed, mended, strewn with mothballs and folded away in cardboard box bearing his name and number, were as safe as if they had been received in deposit by the Bank of England .

 Macmann spent a long time in the House of Saint John of God . He did not stir from his bed, not knowing if he could walk, or even stand . There sprang up gradually between them a kind of intimacy .

 "Not one day goes by that I do not give thanks to God, on my bended knees, for having found you," he writes . "Let us profit first by this superb sundown, after the long day of storm"

 "I was never beautiful or well-proportioned, but ugly and even misshapen, to judge by the testimonies I have received" "Papa notably used to say that people would run a mile from me" Macmann wrote tetty-beshy to offer to his mistress, for he felt she was drifting away from him

 Macmann should have suc- ceeded, in so short a time and after such inauspicious beginnings, in elevating himself to a view of this altitude . He had time to compose ten or twelve more or less in this vein .

 Moll found a long yellow canine bared to the roots and carved, with the drill probably, to represent the celebrated sacrifice . She let go her lip, which sprang back into place with a smack . This incident made a strong impression on Macmann .

 Moll's hair began to fall out in abundance and she confessed to Macmann that she did not dare comb it any more . The sight of her diminished did not damp Macmann’s desire to take her, all stinking, yellow and vomiting, in his arms .

 Lemuel remained for a long time plunged in thought, sometimes for as long as ten minutes or a quarter of an hour, motionless or scratching his head or his armpit . Macmann said to himself, when she told him, that she would have made me a present of it, or at least shown it to me . Lemuel

 Lemuel's cries were of two kinds, those having no other cause than moral anguish and those, similar in every respect, by means of which he hoped to forestall same . Physical pain, on the contrary, seemed to help him greafly .

 A market-gardener, he had*’ only one eye and wore side-whiskers, was on his way home from the butcher’s . Perhaps it is just another story, told me by some one who found it funny .

 "I don’t doubt he gave me due warn- ing, before he hit me. What an idea, all the same, to hit me on the head" "He must have been here from nine to twelve, then from two to six, now I have it"

 "The only thing you must never speak of is your happiness, I can think of nothing else for the moment . My voice has gone dead, the rest will follow"

 "I thought he was going to kill me, with its long sharp point, he had only to plunge it in my heart . Perhaps he will come back to-morrow, better equipped, or with an assistant, now that he is familiar with the premises"

 Oh he did not vanish, after the fashion of a ghost, no, I heard him, the clank when he took out his watch, the satisfied thump of the umbrella on the floor, the rightabout, the rapid steps towards the door, its soft closing*

 All the people I have ever caught a glimpse of, at close quarters or at a distance, may file past from now on, that is obvious . They will all be armed with something to lean on and rummage in my things with, they will all give me a clout on the head to begin with . How is it I am not thirsty

 Samuel Becket's autobiography is written from the point of view of a man who has lost his life . The author begins by writing about himself before writing about the rest of his life and the people he has met .

 Lemuel called a keeper by the name of Pat, a thorough brute though puny in appearance . Lemuel struck Macmann with a stick until Lemuel told him to stop . Then Lemuel took it from him and struck him with it over and over again .

 The gulls were many in stormy weather which paused here on their flight inland . No questions were ever asked in the House of Sain John of God, but stern measures were simply taken .

 The writer describes a plateau with gentle slopes . The entire top was occupied by the domain of Saint John . From here a fine view was to be obtained of the plain, the sea, the mountains and the smoke of the town .

 SAMUEL BECKETT pare it with what it had been he had had enough of, until he lost it, and would have enough of again . He stated, for he was artless, I have had enough, without pausing a moment to reflect .

 Photographer Macmann tore up this photograph and threw the bits in the air, one windy day . What he liked best in this picture was the chair, the seat of which seemed to be made of straw . Others besides Macmann strayed from morning to night, stooped under the heavy cloak .

 Lemuel slept on the bare boards and even off them ate his lesser meals . The long silver carpet was in position, ending in a point, trembling across the calm repouss .

 Lemuel ate six pieces of bacon, his own and the others, ate all the fat off them, sucked the rinds and threw them back in the soup . Lemuel was called the Saxon, though he was far from being any such thing .

 Macmann writes: 'A few lines to remind me that I too subsist. Indubitably going, that's all that matters'

 Lemuel held Macmann by the arm as he tried to free him from his cell . Macmann was furious at having been shut up in his cell all morning . Lemuel, Macmann, the Saxon and the giant sat on one of the seats, set parallel to the wheels .

 Lemuel produced a hatchet from under his cloak and dealt himself a few smart blows on the skull, with the heel, for safety . Lady Pedal was pleased to interpret the Saxon's roar as a manifestation of joy .

 Lemuel and Lady Pedal were on their way back to their parents . The giant had refused to leave the boat, so that the Saxon could not leave it either . Lemuel held him by the waist, perhaps lovingly .

 Lemuel made Macmann and the two others get into the boat and got into it himself . Then they set out, all six, from the shore . This tangle of grey bodies is they. Silent, dim, perhaps cling- ing to one anerther .

 "I shall not be alone, in the beginning. I am of course alone. That is soon said. And how can one be sure, in such darkness? I shall have company."

 The brimless hat seems to me conclusive. With his two hands he props up his jaw. Perhaps he does not see roe. One of these days I’ll challenge him . Is not this rather the place where one finishes vanishing? Will the day come when Malone will pass before me no more?

 Malone appears and disappears with the punc- tuality of clockwork, always at the same remove, the same velocity, in the same direction . "I owe my existence to no one, these faint fires are not of those that illuminate or bum there . If I accom- plish other natural functions it is unawares. Nothing

 Samuel Beckett is convinced he is not deaf, but half-convinced . The silence here is almost unbroken, but it is not broken . Beckett pletely pletesly so so so many people can be seen .

 A man may die at the age of seventy without ever hav- ing had the possibility of seeing Halley’s comet . After a long period of immaculate silence a feeble cry was heard, by me .

 The things they have told me! about men, the light of day. I refused to believe them. But some of it has stuck. I continue to see Malone as darkly as the first time. My eyes being fixed always in the same direction I can only see," he says .

 When did all this nonsense stop? And has it stopped? Is it merely a lull? Is he still usurping my name, the one they foisted on me? The other advances full upon me. He emerges as from heavy hangings, advances a few steps, looks at me, then backs away .

 In order to speak, one starts speaking as if it were possible to stop at will . The search for the means to put an end to things is what enables the discourse to continue . No, I must not try to think, simply utter .

 "There is no night so deep, so I have heard tell, that it may not be pierced in the end . The days of sticks are over, here I can count on my body alone"

 "I am Matthew and I am the angel, I who came before the cross, before the sinning, came into the world, came here. I could know. But I shall not know. Not this time"

 "The UNNAMABLE 305 dered, now am fixed, lost for tininess, or straining against the walls, with my head, hands, feet, and ever murmuring my old stories" "Take your choice, which spews me out or swallows me" "I’ll never know, which is perhaps merely

 Prometheus: "I thought I was right in enlisting these sufferers of my pains. I was wrong" Prometheus was delivered twenty-nine thou-sand nine hundred and seventy years after having purged his offence .

 "I feel my tears coursing over my chest, my sides, and all down my back" "They gather in my beard and from there, when it can hold no more — no, no beard, no hair either" "I know my eyes are open, because of the tears that pour from them unceasingly"

 "I invented love, music, the smell of flowering currant, to escape from me," he writes . "Organs, a without, it's easy to imagine, a god, it’s unavoidable, you imagine them"

 "I speak, speak, because I must, but I do not listen, I seek my lesson, my life I used to know and would not confess," he writes . "Then a little hell after my own heart, not too cruel, with a few nice damned to foist my groans on"

 Samuel Beckett was not inattentive the last time he heard a murmur telling of another and le«s unpleasant method of ending his troubles . He caught the murmur without ceasing for an instant to emit my .

 "I was sufficiently impressed by certain expressions to make a vow, while continuing my yelps, never to forget them" "I see myself slip- ping, though not yet at the last cxtrcmiiV, towards the resorts of fable"

 'I want to go silent. Not as just now, the better to listen, but peacefully, victorious, without ulterior object. Then it would be a life worth having, a life at last'

 The writer is unable to find the right pensum to say his lesson . When he has finished his pensum he will still have to reconstitute the right lesson . This is perhaps about you, and your goal at hand .

 Carmagnole says he has to say something about himself in order to be believed . He asks himself if he should praise his master or admit that he is Mahood .

 I want all to be well with you, do you hear me, that’s what he keeps on dinning at me . "I say that to cheer him up., he sounds so unhappy. No, we have no conversation, never a mum of his of his."

 "Even Mahood has left me. I’m alone" Beckett: 'What he wants is my good, I know that, I say it in the hope of bringing him round to a more reasonable frame of mind"

 "No one compels me to, there is no one, it’s an accident, a fact. Not to have been a dupe will have been my best possession, my best deed"

 "I've been he an instant, hobbling through a nature which, it is only fair to say, was on the barren side" "I'm not far short of a man, just barely a man"

 The writer was stuck in an ellipse . He was unable to go any further . After each thrust of crutches I stopped to devour a narcotic and measure the distance gone .

 In 320 SAMUEL BECKETT was returning to the fold, admittedly reduced, and doubtless fated to be even more so . He found himself in a kind of vast yard or campus surrounded by high walls . At the centre of this enclosure stood a small rotunda, windowless and windowless .

 The children increased in stature, the periods of Ptomaine grew pale, the ancients glowered at each other, muttering, to themselves . They did not want to check the impetus that was sweeping me towards them . According to Mahood I never reached them, that is to say they all died first .

 Samuel Beckett's wife announced the latest news, for them to take to bed with them . The narrators themselves, torn from their melan- choly thoughts, could scarce forbear to smile . They all rose with the exception of my mother whose knees couldn't support her, and sang .

 "Never once have I stopped. My halts do not count. Their purpose was to enable me to go on . In reality I had sutik to the ground of my own free will"

 Mahood dixit suggested that the misfortune experienced by my famity and brought to my notice first by the noise of their agony, then by the smell of their corpses, had caused me to turn back . From that moment on I ceased to go along with him . I’ll explain why, that will permit me to think of something

 "I am there to be pained, that is what my tempters have never grasped," he writes . "So long as one’s thoughts arc somewhere everything is permitted, as if nothing had happened"

 Samuel Beckett claims he was forced to vomit by the stench of his family's remains . He claims he felt annoyance at having to flounder in such muck at the moment when his closing contortions called for a firm and level surface . "I was never anywhere but here, no one ever got me out of here," he

 "What I speak of, what I speak with, all comes from them. How they must hate me! Ah a nice state they have me in, but still I'm not their creature, not quite, not yet."

 "They’ve blown me up with their voices, like a balloon, and even as I collapse it’s them I hear," he writes . "I’ll fix their jargon for thern, then any old thing, no matter what, whatever they want, with a will, till time is done"

 "I do not move and never shall again, unless it be under the impulsion of a third party" "I might as well tell another of Mahood’s stories and no more about it"

 Police tolerate 330 SAMUEL BECKETT by the police . They know I am speechless and capable of taking unfair advantage of my situation . The fact is I trouble no one, except possibly that category of hypersensitive persons .

 Samuel Beckett is a writer who lives in the south of England . He has written a book about his experiences in the South .

 Snow alone, provided of course it is heavy, entitles me to the tarpaulin . I have tried to make her understand that I should like to be shrouded more often . "I forget how it goes on. Perhaps it stops there, perhaps they stopped it there. There you are now, you don't need us any more"

 SAMUEL BECKETT was blinded by the jar a few inches from the edge of it . "I have dwindled, I dwindle. Not so long ago, with a kind of shrink of my head and shoulders, as when one is scolded, I could disappear"

 "For the woman, dis- pleased at seeing me sink lower and lower, has raised me up by filling the bottom of my jar" "I could never bear to be idle, it saps one's energy"

 Samuel Beckett's last words to himself were: 'Come come, a little co-operation please, finish dying, it's the least you might do' Beckett: 'To have forever before my eyes, when I opeif them, approximately the same set of hallucinations exactly is a joy I might never have known, but for the

 'Already I’m beginning to be there no more, in that calamitous street they made so clear to me' 'It is clear in any case that I have lost heart too lightly, it is quite possible I have all that is required to give them satisfaction'

 "Little by little I’ll get used to it, admonished by them, used to the scene. And at my next appearance, if I ever appear again, all will be new, new and strange" "It will perhaps be less restful than I appear to think."

 "I have to speak in a certain way, with warmth perhaps, all is possible," he writes . "Words pronouncing me alive, since that's how they want me to be, I don't know why"

 Samuel Beckett is best known for his work on The Godfather . He has written a book about his experiences, called Samuel .

 "It's time I gave this solitary a name, nothing doing without proper names. I therefore baptise nim Worm. I don't like it, but I haven't much choice" It will be my name too, when I needn’t be called Mahood any more, if that happy time ever .

 "I swear it, the other never caught me, I was never delivered from him, it’s past history, up to the present" "I am he who will never be caught, never delivered, who crawls be- tween the thwarts, towards the new day that promises to be glorious"

 Watt: "Perhaps it’s the characteristic, among others, of Mahood to note, even if he does not always succeed in doing so, certain things" Watt: 'Perhaps it's by trying to be Worm that I’ll finally succeed in being Mahood'

 Samuel Beckett writes about his thoughts while waiting for something intelligible to take place . Almost immediately a thought presents itself, he should concentrate more often .

 'How, under these conditions, can Mahood expect me to behave normally? The flies vouch for me, if you like, but how far? Would they not settle with equal appetite on a lump of cowshit?'

 The bliss of what he has achieved is clear, simple and exhausting . The next thing is somehow to connect this with Madeleine and her great goodness . But enough of this cursed first person, it is really too red a herring . Mahood once knew a doctor who held that scientifically speaking the latest breath could only issue from the . fundament

 The belief in God is sometimes lost following a period of intensified zeal and observance . There was a time I thought she was perhaps a near relation, mother, sister, daughter, or perhaps even a wife .

 Samuel Beckett left the world of his former life behind him . The stories of Mahood are ended. He has realised they could not be about me, he has aban- doned, it is I who win .

 "I say what I am told to say, in the hope that some day they will weary of talking at me" 'They'll never get the better of my stupidity' 'I wish him a happy time. Worm to play, his lead, I wish him every success, in his courageous undertaking"

 "I have no voice, in this matter I have none. That’s one of the reasons why I confused myself with Worm" "I’m like Worm, without voice or reason"

 "They think I can’t bear silence, that some day, sdhiehow, my horror of silence will force me to break it . But they dare not be silent for long, the whole fabrication might collapse . Ah if I could only find a voice of my own, in all this babble, it would be the end

 Samuel Beckett was a student at Cambridge . He wrote a book about his experience of being a ventriloquist . Now he has forgotten who Worm is, he will begin to be him .

 'I need nobody, they’ll start sprouting under my arse, unaided' 'What doesn't come to me from me has come to the wrong address' 'I still leave much to be desired, I have no technique' 'My understanding is not yet sufficiently well-oiled to function with- out some critical

 Samuel Beckett reflects on his life in prison . "I sometimes seem to remember what I was like when I was Worm, and not yet delivered into their hands" "It seems to me too, which is even more deplorable, that I could become Worm again"

 "I don't hear what they say, all I know is they are still there, they haven't done, with me" "Perhaps I have still a thousand years to go" "There arc long silences too, at long intervals, during which, hearing nothing, I say nothing"

 Samuel Beckett is the son of a woman who died in childbirth . He has written a book about his experiences . Mahood says he suffers like 'true thinking flesh, but I'm sorry, I feel nothing'

 "The meeflanism matters little, provided I succeed in saying, before I go deaf," he writes . "Millions of different sounds, always the same, recurring without pause, are all one requires to sprout a head"

 "I'd demand no more of m rt - than to know that what I hear is not the innocent and necessary sound of dumb things constrained to endure, but the terror-stricken babble of tTie condemned to silence" Worm is now with breath in his nostrils, only remains for him to suffocate .

 A head has grown out of his ear, the better to enrage him, that must be it . The circumvolutionisation will be seen too later, when they get him out . A transformer in which sound is turned, without the help of reason, to rage .

 The voice will begin again, low at first, then louder, coming from the quarter they want him to retreat from . In this way they’ll bring him to the wall and even to the precise point where they have made other holes through which to pass their arms and seize him .

 Fen is now in a pit, no avenue will have Feen left unexplored . According to the latest news, he'll have to climb to reach him . Worm cannot set himself in motion, though he often desires to .

 The slopes are 362 SAMUEL BECKETT gentle that meet where he lies, they flatten out under him . They don’t know what to say, to be able to believe in him, what to invent .

 Tears gush from it practically without ceasing, why is not known, nothing is known . Perhaps it’s the voice that makes it weep, with rage, or some other passion, perhaps that's it . Perhaps he weeps in order not to see, from time to time, some sight or other .

 Worm suffers only from the noise which prevents him from being what he was meant to be . Worm being in the singular, as it turned out, they are in the plural, to avoid confusion .

 Worm has been in a dark place for a long time, but his colour is fading . Perhaps one day brightness will come, little by little, or rapidly, or in a sudden flood, and then it is hard to see how Worm could stay . But impossible situa- tions cannot be prolonged, unduly . Either they disperse, or

 A ball, revolving one knows not how about him, that would be better than nothing . Passing by at the right distance, the right level, say once a month, that’s not exorbitant, full face and profile, like criminals . It might even pause, open its mouth, raises its eyebrows, raise its eyebrows and bless

 "I see me, I see my place, there is nothing to show it, nothing to dis- tinguish it" "If only this voice would stop, for a second, it would seem long to me" Worm should have fled, but where, how, he's riveted .

 3%S SAMUEL BECKETT: 'It's like slime, paradise, it would be paradise, but for this noise' 'There’s no air here, air is to make you choke, light is to close your eyes'

 "Lamps unattended will not bum on forever, on the contrary, they will go out, little by little, without attendants to charge them anew, and go silent, in the end . Then all will start over again, obviously . So it will never be known, Worm will never know, let the silence be black, or let it

 If he could escape from this light, which makes him suffer, is it not obvious it would make him suffer more and more, in whatever direction he went? They say they do, but it's impossible. Worm is an idea they have, a word they use, when speaking of them, enough about them .

 Samuel Beckett is writing a book about his experiences in the military . The book is due out next year . "No one asks him to think, simply to suffer, always in the same way"

 "I expiate vilely, like a pig, dumb, uncomprehending, possessed of no utterance but theirs" "I've always been in a dungeon, I hear everything, every word they say, it’s the only sound"

 The words have to be ratified by the proper authority, that takes time . We’ll have to go through it all again, in other words, or in the same words, arranged differently . Respite then, once in a way, if one can call that respite, when one waits to know one'

 "There is nothing for it but to wait for the end, nothing but for theend to come, and at the end all will be the same" "If only this voice could stop, this meaningless voice which prevents you from being nothing"

 "Let them blundef on to the end of their folly, then they can go into the question again, taking care not to compromise themselves" "They achieve nothing, neither what they want, nor the obscure infamy to which they are committed"

 There are signs of life, the fall of a pin, the stirring of a leaf, or the little cry that frogs give when they are spiked . Worm is notoriously secretive, and has never been seen in public with Mahood .

 Mahood will stay where he was put, stuck up to his skull in his vase, opposite the shambles . Between them would be the place to be, where you suffer, rejoice .

 "It’s a lucky thing they are there, meaning anywhere, to bear the responsibility of this state of affairs" "From it you set out to look for a face, to it you return having found nothing, nothing worth having, nothing but a kind of ashen smear"

 "I too have thS right to be shown impossible. This will never end, there’s no sense in fooling oneself" "Thanks to me all will be over, and they'll depart, one by one, or they’ll drop" "Bewitching prospect if ever there was one, they are"

 Worm is always called to the rescue when things go badly, he talks all the time of merit and situations . But suffering, since he has always suffered, damps the rejoicings . He soon makes up for it, he puts all to rights again .

 "I can't go to them, they’'ll have to come and get me, if they want me" "I’ll bo in the bag, that’s how I see it, I see nothing, they don’t understand"

 "All the dogs came crawling and dug the dog a tomb and wrote upon the tombstone for dogs and bitches to come," he said . "Our hell will be heaven to them, after what you’ve done to them," he added .

 Spermatozoon. 383 is the name of a fictional character . The book is about a young boy who becomes a sperm .

 "I've pelted him with twaddle, the dear departed, wondering what he could possibly be like, wondering where we could possibly have met" "I am de#r to them, now it's they are dear to me" "They’ll join us, one by one"

 T’m alone here, the first and the last, I never made anyone suffer . I’ll never know peace, neither will they, but with this difference, that they don’t want it, they say they don't want it . After all perhaps they’re right, how could I want it? T

 One must wait, discover a preference, within one's bosom, then it will be time enough to . "I prefer that, what a memory, real fly-paper, I don’t know, IDon't prefer it any more, that’s all I know, so why bother about it?"

 "I’ve two surfaces and no thickness, perhaps that’s what I feel, myself vibrating," he says . "Without an ear I'll have heard, and I’ll have said it, without a mouth I will have saidIt"

 'I’ll grow one, a little hole at first, then wider anil wider, deeper and deeper, the air will gush into me, and out a second later, howling' Samuel Beckett is best known for his novel, The Passenger .

 "I’ve got nowhere, in their affair, that’s what galls them, they want me there somewhere, anywhere, if only they’d stop committing reason, on them, on me, on purpose to be achieved, and simply go on"

 "Where am I, where is the place where I've always been, where are the others, who is talking, not I" "What has God done to us, nothing, and Where am I?" "What do they want, what have I done to them?"

 "I am talking, thirsting, starving, let it stand, in the ice aid in the furnace" "You feel nothing, strange, you don’t feel a mouth on you . You don't feel your mouth any more"

 Fear of sound is past, nothing but fear, nothing of all its due but fear cen- tupled, fear of its shadow . "I seek what it is I hear, I hear them, now it comes back to me" Fear of sounds, all sounds, more or less fear, more than less fear all sounds .

 'I will say what is to be said and then say what it was, that will be jolly' 'I seek nothing, nothirfcfc I never doubted. There was never any doubt that I was going to do this' 'It's only the beginning, how I manage, under such conditions to do what I'm

 "It has not been possible up to date to determine with certainty, or even approximately, what it is," he said . "I have only just Jaken over my functions, I and this noise, and what about it, don’t interrupt me. I’m doing my best, I repeat"

 "Silence to tell the truth does not appear to have been very conspicuous up to now, but appearances may sometimes be deceptive," he writes . "I never threw anything away of all the things I found, never found anything that I didn't lose"

 'I have overcome the fatal leaning towards expressiveness. Equate mef with him who exists, some-how, no matter how, no finicking'

 "I’m not at home to anything, my doors are shut against them," he writes . "Perhaps that’s how I’ll find silence, and peace at last, by opening my doors and letting myself be devoured," he says .

 'I'm looking for my mother to kill her, I should have thought of that a bit earlier' 'I have a head now too, where all manner of things are known, can it be of me I’m speaking, is it possible, of course not, that’s another thing I know'

 "You see nothing, hear nothing, you hear the long kiss of dead water and mud, aloft at less than a score of fathoms men come and go, you dream of them" "You wonder how you know all you know, you even see grass, grass at dawn, glaucous with dew"

 "I'm going to stop, that is to say I’m going to look as if I had, it will be like everything else" "I’ll tell one of Mahood’s old tales, no matter which, they are all alike, they won't tire me" "There is no one left, it

 "If only there were a thing somewhere, to talk about, even though you couldn’t see it, simply feel it there, with you, you might have the courage not to go silent"

 "If I could learn something by heart I’d be saved, I have to keep on saying the same thing" "I invented my memories, not knowing what I was doing, not one is of me" "It's the end that is the worst, no, it’s the beginning that is th<?worst"

 "I did what I could, a thing beyond my strength, and often for exhaustion I gave up doing it" "I don't know if I ever lived, I have really no opinion on the subject" "The inability to speak, the inability to be silent, and/olitude, that’s what I’ve had

 "I always believed I would never go silent, you can’t call that believing, it’s my walls," he said . "I’m doing as I always did, I’'m going on as best I can," he added .

 Samuel Beckett wrote a book about his experiences in prison . The book is called 'The Prisoner of Jywe' 'It would be moi£ com- plicated, less symmetrical, no,' he says .

 "I was always aged, always ageing, and ageing makes no diffoence" "If I could shut myself up, it would be a mine" "I see him so well, coming and going a^'ong his casks, trying to stop his hand from trembling, dropping hili thimble"

 The sea under my window, higher than the window, and the row- boat, do you remember? I knew I had memories, pity they arc not of me . If I could be in a forest, caught in a thicket, or wandering round in circles, it would be the end of this blither .

 "I notice one thing, the others have vanished, completely, I don't like it" "You want yourself, you want yourself in your own little corner, it’s not love, not curiosity, it's because you’re tired" "The oUJ, meaning that I’ll give myself, "The

 "When plans fail there are always aspirations, it’s a knack, you must say it slowly" "I smell the stable, I always smelt the stable" "There would be someone there already, someone far gone"

 Samuel Beckett's latest novel is called 'I am he' and is written by Beckett himself . It's not I, I am he, after all, why not say it, I must have said it .

 'I can’t suppose any- THE UNNAMABLE 4W thing, I have to go on, that’s what I’m doing, let others suppose' 'Sometimes you’d think I was reasoning, I've no objection, they must have taught me reasoning too' 'I hear this horrible noise

 "There is no name for me, there is no pronoun for me . I seem to speak, that’s because he sa; s I as if he were I, I tlearly believed him, do you hear him" "He wants me to rise up, up into him, or up into another, let us be impartial

 "I don't know who it's all about, that's all I know, no, I must know something else, they must have taught me something," he says . "The man on duty speaks of himself, it's not that, of others, it’s not that of others"

 "I am far, far, what does that mean, no need to be far, perhaps he’s here, in my arms" "I know what it is, they must have told me I'm in something, it's not I, that's all I know"

 "I must have understood, I must have wanted it, wanted the eye, for my own" "I have tried, all the things they’ve told me, and they come in useful still, when I think of them, that too, you must go on think too"

 The story was to teach me the naturp of emotion, that’s called emotion, what emotion can do, given favourable conditions, what love can do . It's love, and trains, the nature of trains, and the meaning of your back to the engine .

 "I thought they were over, perhaps it’s a new one, lepping fresh, is it the return to the world of fable, no, just a reminder, to make me regret what I have lost, long to be again" "At every instant I’m there, listen to me speaking of it, I

 A score would be plenty, tried and trusty, unforgettable, that would be palette enough . I'll laugh, that’s how it will end, in a chuckle, chuck chuck, ow, ha, pa. I'll practise, nyum, hoo, plop, psss and psssss .

 "I have nb explanations to offer, none to demand, the comma will come where I’ll drown for good, then the silence, how it drags on" "The voice falters and when it stops, but it falters every instant, it stops every instant" "If only I could give up, before be-

 "I'm alone, perhaps the first, or perhaps the last, talking alone, listening alone" "I won't be the last. I’ll be with the others" "There are not two prisons, it’s my parlour"

 "There they flre again, to give me quit- tance, waiting for me to say I’m someone . Perhaps that’s all they’re waiting for, perhaps it will be I . But do I really see nothing?"

 "I have only to listen, the voice will tell me everything, tell it to me again" "I'll draw it out of my memory. I'll gather it all about me. I will make myself a place"

 "I’m not suffering enough yet, it’s not yet my turn, the topographical and anatomical information in particular is lost on me, I don’t hear everything, that .must be it, the important things escape me,’ he writes . "I'll depart into life, travel the road, travel

 "I say what I' hear, I hear what I say, I don't know, one or the other, or both, that makes three possibilities, pick your fancy, all these stories about travellers, these stories atjout paralytics, all are mine"

 'The words fa ; l, the voice fails, so be it, I know that well. It will be the silence, full of murmurs, distant cries, the usual silence, spent listening, waiting, waiting for the voice, the cries abate, like all cries . I’ll recognise it, in the end I'll

 "I'll wake, in the silence, and never sleep again, it will be I, or dream, dream again, dream of a silence, a dream silence, full of murmurs, I don't know, that’s all words, never wake, all words"




Iteration 1


 Samuel Beckett is in his mother's room and sleeps in her bed . He doesn't know how he got there but says he was helped by a man . He says: 'I piss and shit in her pot. I have taken her place'

 "The man was innocent, greatly innocent, he had nothing to fear, though he went in fear" "It seemed to me he wore a cocked hat . It was a stout stick, he used it to thrust himself onward"

 Willem de Klerk's novel is about a man on crutches who tries to catch up with a mangy dog . The little dog followed wretchedly, stopping, turning in slow circles, giving up . The author says he knew he could catch the man, he just had to want to .

 "I never wore a flower in my buttonhole, though it was large enough to hold a whole nosegay . My buttonhole was set aside for my hat . But it is neither of my hat nor my greatcoat that I hope to speak at present"

 The author's mother never refused to see him. She never called him son, fortunately, he couldn't have borne it . "I was crippled though I was, I was no mean cyclist, at that period" "I fastened my crutches to the cross-bar, one on either side"

 "I called her Mag because for me, without my knowing' why the letter g abolished the syllable Ma . "At the same time I satisfied a deep and doubtless unacknowledged need, the need to have a Ma, Dan was my father’s name perhaps, yes, perhaps she took me for my father" 'I

 Samuel Beckett was distraught, who am so seldom distraught, and as to my motions even more uncertain than usual . The night must have tired me, and the sun, hoisting itself higher and higher in the east, had poisoned me, while I slept .

 Samuel BBCKETT was interrogated by a police official at a police station . Official had a straw hat on his head and protruding from his mouth was a thin flexible object . He said: 'They let me keep my hat on, I don't know why'

 The Salvation Army is no better than the Salvation Army . To him who has nothing it is forbidden not to relish filth . Social workers will pursue you to the ends of the earth, the vomitory in their hands .

 The MOLLOY 27 is a book of short stories written by the author . Samuel Beckett was imprisoned in a barracks in China . Beckett says he has always cried out more or less openly .

 28 SAMUEL BECKETT is published by Simon Cowell at the end of this week at the bottom of a ditch . "I wish I smelt like a sheep, or a buck-goat," writes the author .

 'I counted them. Three hundred and fifteen farts in nine-teens hours' 'I had-neither taste nor humour, I lost them early on' 'In winter, under his greatcoat, I wrapped myself in swathes of newspaper' 'Even my sense of identity was wrapped in a namelessness often hard to penetrate

 "I have never been particularly resolute, I mean given to resolutions, but rather inclined to plunge headlong, into the shit" "All I know is what the words know, and the dead things, and that makes a handsome little sum, with a beginning, a middle and an end"

 Samuel Beckett needed to help his mother get rid of her dog . "I too needed her, it seemed. She must have told me, for that was an insinuation I could not decently pass over"

 Loussc dug the hole while I held the dog in my arms . The dog had ticks in his ears, I have an eye for such things, they were buried with him . Funny she should have chosen, to bury her dog beneath, the only tree I can identify .

 In the end it was magic that had the honour of my ruins, and still today, when I walk there, I find its vestiges . "How difficult it is to speak of the moon and not lose one’s head, the witless moon"

 "I wither as the living can not. I will listen no longer, for the time being" "When I am there, my eyes close, my sufferings cease and I end" "I listen and the voice is of a world collapsing endlessly" SAMUEL BECKETT asks: Had there then elapsed, between that night

 SAMUEL BECKETT is a 44-year-old British journalist and author . He says he pushed rather than struck them, thrust at them and lunged .

 "The boughs them- selves seemed to shift, as though endowed with an orbital velocity of their own" "My sucking-stone in particular was no longer there" "If I do not always appear to observe this principle it is because it escapes me from time to time, and vanishes"

 SAMUEL BECKETT met Lousse in a garden in a town in the south of France . Lousse loved spike- lavender above all other herbs and flowers, because of its smell, and then also of its spikes .

 "She gathered this lavender when it bloomed I presume, left it to dry and then made it up into lavender-bags that she put in her cupboards to perfume her underclothing and house-linen" "All the time she never stopped talking, whereas I only opened my mouth . 'I was the precarious calm,

 'I mis- judged the distance separating me from the other world' 'I preferred the garden to the house, to judge by the long hours I spent there'

 'I accuse her without ill-feeling of having drugged my food and drink with noxious and insipid powders and potions' 'Never did I see a woman within these precincts, and by precincts I do not merely mean the precincts'

 "With Lousse my health got no worse, or scarcely," he writes . "What was already wrong with me got worse and worse, little by little"

 "She had a hole between her legs, oh not the bunghole I had always imagined, but a slit, and in this I put, or rather she put, my so-called virile member," he writes . Edith gave him money after each session, to me who would have consented to probe it to the bottom .

 "My mother's image sometimes mingles with theirs, which is literally unendurable, like being crucified . And I am quite willing to go on thinking of her as an old woman, widowed and withered" "Not knowing where I was nor consequently what way I ought to go I went with the wind"

 Samuel Beckett's diary is written when he is in pain . Beckett writes that his legs are as stiff as a life-sentence .

 Samuel BECKBTT met a young old man shivering all alone in a narrow doorway . He stood beside him, with the air, he hoped, of one jvho says . Many a one must have said. They arc right, I am wrong, meaning by they the category to which he did not belong .

 "I came' to the ramparts as night was fall- ing, having described a good quarter of a circle, through bad navi- gation" Molloy lost interest in knowing, among other things, what town he was in and if he should soon find my mother . "When I see my hands, on the sheet,

 Author spent the night in the desert before setting out on his journey . Describes the night as 'nauseating but not pestilent, less rat than toad'

 SAMUEL BECKETT. replaced the stones by the four in the right pocket of his trousers . He then replaced the four remaining stones in the left pocket with the four from the right .

 "I could double the number of my pockets, were it only by dividing each pocket in two, with the help of a few safety-pins" "All (all!) that was necessary was to put for example, to begin with, six stones in the right pocket of my great- 72 SAMUEL BECKETT coat"

 The 73 series of sucks and transfers starts with the first six stones back in the supply pocket . 'Deep down I didn’t give a tinker’s curse about being off my balance'

 Samuel Beckett lived in a cave in a swamp between his town and the sea . There was always talk of draining, by means of canals, or of transforming into a vast port and docks . 'The black speck I was, in the great pale stretch of sand, who could wish it harm?'

 Author was on crutches for most of his life due to a broken leg . 'The two legs shorten at the same time, but when one shortens, and the other not, then you begin to be worried'

 "The noise betrayed me, I turned purple" "Not a word, not a word against the crises that seized me" "I apologise for having to revert to this lewd orifice, 'tis my muse will have it so"

 "I can’t shake off the feeling that the day will come for me to say what is left of all I had" "There were days when my legs were the best part of me" "It is too late now to do anything about it, that I have laid too much stress on my legs"

 "I might have loved him, I think, if I had been seventy years younger, but it's not certain" Beckett: "I swung, that’s all that matters, in an ever-widening arc" "Some days I advanced no more than thirty or forty paces"

 "I stopped being half-witted and became sly, whenever I was in the forest" "I considered that the forest was no worse then. And it was not only no worse, to my mind, but it w£s better, in this sense, that I was there"

 "I am merely complying with the convention that demands you either lie or hold your peace" "I did not say. Yet a little while, at the rate things are going, etc., but that resembled perhaps what I would have said, if I had been able"

 A horn goes well with the forest, you expect it. Even a tom-tom, at a pinch, would not have shocked me . It was mortify- ing to have been looking forward to the celebrated murmurs .

 Moran was savour- ing the day of rest, while deploring the importance attached to it, in certain parishes . To work, even to play on Sunday was not of necessity reprehensible, in his opinion .

 Samuel Beckett was not a neighbor but had journeyed from afar on purpose to disturb me . He was dressed in his heavy, sombre Sunday best, and at this my displeasure knew no bounds . Moran cried, but he's out of his mind! Your son was spying on them from behind a bush .

 "I was sometimes inclined to go too far when I reprimanded my son, who was con- sequently a little afraid of me" Moran had not yet begun to take the matter seriously .

 Gaber was a free-thinker. He knew my habits, my Sunday habits . To try and solve the problem of transport under such conditions was madness .

 Father Ambrose sent for a portable pyx, opened it, and dispatched me . He informed me that Mrs Clement, the chemist’s wife, had fallen, in her laboratory, from the top of a ladder, and broken the neck .

 The interview with Father Ambrose left me with a painful impression . He was still the same dear man, and yet not nobility . My son had a way of saying papa, when he wanted to hurt me, that was very special .

 The Eisner sisters were not bad neighbours, as neigh-bours go . They made a little too much music, that was the only fault I cr ild find with them .

 Samuel Beckett was a member of a secret organisation . He and Gaber thought they were the only ones of their kind . Martha was sitting in her rocking chair, in the chimney-corner, rocking herself moodily .

 Anger should be left to cool, in my opinion, crisis to pass, before one operates . Samuel Beckett's mother took the albums and withdrew, without a word . The sight went straight to my heart, but nevertheless I did my duty .

 Molloy, or Mollose, was no stranger to me. If I had colleagues, I might have suspected I had spoken of him to them . But I had no colleagues and knew nothing of the circumstances in which I had learnt of his existence .

 Mol swayed, to and fro, like a bear . He rolled his head, uttering incomprehensible words" "Images of this kind the will cannot revive without doing them violence"

 Anger led me sometimes to slight excesses of language, I could not regret them . Naturally I con- fessed them to Martha and laughed so much I began to hiccup . Not only had the rain stopped, in the west scarves of fine red sheen were mount- ing in the sky .

 Father Ambrose gave his son an enema, with salt water, but he struggled, but not for long . Since dinner is uneatable, he said, be good enough to prepare a packet of sandwiches .

 Martha watched me in silence, lolling in her rocking chair . How can you hope to shit, i said, when you’ve nothing in your stomach?

 Samuel Beckett took his son's favourite stamps . The Togo one mark carm! 10 with the pretty boat, the Nyassa 1901 ten reis and several others were found . Others concerned the dog Zulu, the perfumes Sharpened tenfold by the rain .

 Moran made ready to go without knowing where he was going, having consulted neither map nor time-table . Moran had only the vaguest notion of the outfit he would need, the time the expedition was likely to take and the money he would require .

 Samuel Beckett's son was crying when he left his room . He cried: 'Shame on you, I cried, you ill-bred little pig! I would get angry'

 With me he invariably took the wrong turn, a crossing or a simple corner was all he needed to stray from the right . If I sometimes cut a branch, a flower, it was solely for their good . And I never did it without a pang. I grew no vegetables .

 "I was called elsewhere by the image of my son no longer behind me, but before me" "He was still a little on the young side, my son, for the great deeds of vengeance"

 Molloy Y 133 is a novel about the life of a young man in England . "I follow it none the less, more or less, I follow it in this sense, that I know what it means," he writes .

 Samuel Beckett was born and raised in a small market-town called Bally in the north of the country . The principal beauty of this region was a kind of strangled creek .

 "The right thing would have been to travel by night and hide during the day . But the weather was so fine I could not bring myself to do it" Beckett never saw one of his patients again .

 "I despaired at first ever bending my leg again and then, through sheer determination, did succeed in bending it, slightly" "The pain, having warned me several times in vain, had no more to say"

 SAMUEL BECKETT told him to go to Hole, he said, and buy a bicycle . When you can neither stand nor sit with comfort, you take refuge in the horizontal, like a child in its mother’s lap .

 Jacques Moran sent his son to buy a bicycle in Hole, the nearest town in Turdy . Moran: Do you imagine a second-hand bicycle costs four pounds ten?

 The day seemed very long. I missed myself as best I could . I reached up above my head and broke off a bough and hurled it violently in the air . "I hope he enjoyed it"

 "I expected him to devour it there and then . But he broke it in two and put the pieces in his coat-pockets" "I no longer confined myself to circling about the shelter, as I had done the previous day"

 Samuel Beckett was stranded in the middle of the English countryside when he was hailed by a man . Beckett had been unable to find a way back to the UK and was running out of food . He was trying to renew his provisions when he heard a man outside .

 Samuel Beckett found his friend stretched on the ground, his head in a pulp . Beckett dragged him by the ankles and dragged him backwards into the shelter . "I dismantled the shelter and threw the branches over the body"

 "There is no use my counting them, for I do not know how many there were" "I wiped each key on the grass, before putting it in my pocket, whether it needed wiping" "To kill time I asked myself a certain number of questions"

 "I declare the foregoing to have been written with a firm and even satisfied hand, and a mind calmer than it has been for a long time" "I shall be far away, before these lines are read, in a place where no one will dream of coming to look for me"

 Samuel Beckett's son straddled the frame of his bicycle when the back wheel buckled and we fell . He followed, half dragged, half hopping . I trembled for my testicles . Happily it was the sick leg .

 For waking early I found myself alone, in the shelter . "I longed to say. Take me with you, I will serve you faithfully, just for a place to lie and a little me" But when I moved I saw nothing but the ground and the play of my feet .

 Samuel Beckett's son left him with his bag, umbrella and fifteen shillings . "At the thought of the punishments Youdi might inflict upon me I was seized by such a fit of laughter"

 Moran found Gaber sitting on a tree-stump, half asleep and half asleep . Moran took a small electric torch from his pocket and shone it on his page . He read Moran, Jacques, home, instanter. Do you recognise me? I cried .

 Samuel Beckett set out on a quest to walk from Ballyba to Dublin . He stopped when he could go no further . Disease, whatever it was, was dormant!

 Samuel Beckett says purpose of the hum 'is not to emphasise the dance, but on the contrary to vary it' The dance was best to be observed among bees re-turning to the hive, laden with nectar .

 'I would never do my bees the wrong I had done my God,' he writes . 'I have spoken of a voice giving me orders, or rather advice' 'I not only knew who I was, but I had a sharper and clearer sense of my identity'

 'It’s thanks to her I lost my infant boy, I said, and kept his mamma' 'Such sentiments could not fail to please a cattle breeder' Molloy spent two. boughs. preferring the shelter of my faithful umbrella .

 This time a year ago I was setting out. One day I received a visit from Gaber. He wanted the report. My knee is no better. It is no worse either . The company had cat off the light. They have offered to let me have it back. But I told them they could. Moran took a florin from

 L was always content, knowing I would be, but in the end I understood this language . "I understood it, I understand it, all wrong perhaps. Does this mean I am freer now than I was? I do not know."

 "I shall play with all the more ardour afterwards. And it will be a pendant to the inventory" Beckett will start with his stories of a man, another about a woman, a thing and finally one about an item .

 Samuel Beckett fainting in an ambulance has left no trace on his mind . He does not remember how he got to the hospital . But who has not experienced such lapses?

 "I tremble a little, but only a little" "Sometimes I miss not being able to crawl around any more" "My body is what is called, unadvisedly perhaps, impotent" "There is virtually nothing it can do"

 Mr. Saposcat used to say to his wife, I really must find work for the evenings and the Saturday after- noon. But if you do any more work you’ll fall ill. The life of the Saposcats was full of axioms .

 Samuel Beckett wrote a book about his life . The book is called 'Sapo' and is published by Simon & Schuster . It is about a young man's life .

 Adrian Beckett was a patient, reasonable child, avid of the least gleam, a stranger to the joys of darkness . His dream was less of girls than of himself, his own life .

 "Sapo was born grave as others syphilitic. All alone, well hidden, played the clown, all alone, hour after hour" Samuel Beckett wrote of his experiences in a letter to a friend .

 SAMUEL BECKETT dis-covered a packet tied up in age-yellowed newspaper . "I want, when the great day comes, to be in a position to enounce clearly, without addition or omission"

 Kaspar David Friedrich loved a tempestuous and bright night . He often spoke of his father with respect and tender- ness .

 Lambert's farm was in a hollow, flooded in winter and in summer burnt to a cinder . Lambert's son, or heir, was a great strapping lad with terrible teeth . Lambert could speak of nothing but the pig he had just dispatched .

 Sapo spent long hours in that old kitchen where, neither indoors nor quite out of doors, he waited to be on his feet again . Among those who must have known, some arc dead and the others have forgotten . Sapo remained alone, by the window, the bowl of goat's milk on the table before him, forgotten .

 The Lamberts saw Sapo, from far off or from near by, suddenly emerge from behind the washing and set off down the path . They did not try to detain him or even call goodbye, unresentful at his leaving them . "The face of Sapo as he stumbled away was as always grave, or rather expressionless"

 SAMUEL BECKETT writes about himself with the same pencil and in the same exercise book as about about about himself . He has a minimum of memory is indispensable, if one is to live really . "For a long time now I have been hearing things confusedly," he writes .

 Mr. Saposcat sold himself a fountain-pen, at a dis- count year . He cried as she made to take it in her hand . "From now on I shall write on both sides of the page"

 Sapo arrived at the farm earlier than usual . He was surprised to see, at a distance, the father’s big red and white head . Edmund paused to rest, leaned panting on the spade and smiled .

 Lambert's son Sapo, attracted by the savoury smell, entered the kitchen . Lambert declared. I’ll kill Whitey tpmorrow. Edmund would soon be able to plough and harrow the place where it lay .

 Edmund went up to bed, so as to masturbate in peace and comfort before his sister joined him . Neither his wife nor his son could approve him . Lambert sat watch- ing her .

 The author was once in love with a parrot . He tried to teach it to say 'Nihil in intellects etc. agree' Suave mari magno, especially for the old salt .

 "I enjoy a kind of night and day, admittedly, often it is pitch dark, but in rather a different way" "The light, instead of being the dawn, turned out in a very short time to be the dusk" "My horse-sense tells me I have not yet quite ceased to gasp"

 "I use the two points turn and turn about, sucking them frequently, I love to suck" "I strip them with my nails which are long, yellow, sharp and brittle" "The day is fast approaching when nothing will remain but a fragment too tiny to hold"

 SAMUEL BECKETT has the brainwave to live long enough to get acquainted with free carbonic gas . "I have felt so many strange things, so many baseless things assuredly"

 "I was never happy, but wishing night would never end and morning never come" "I shall go on doing as I have always done, not knowing what it is I do, nor who I am, nor where I am" 'I was always a great man for apples, to be had almost for the whinging if you knew your

 The coat, when new, was of a fine plain green colour, what you might call cab green . But perhaps l am wrong to call this coat a greatcoat and perhaps I should rather call it an overcoat or even cover-me-down . The material of this coat looks like felt, and the various dints and bulges inflicted

 The 232 SAMUEL BECKETT place is 232 Samuel BECKett place . For Macmann it is a true spring evening, an equinoctial gale howls along the quays bordered by high red houses .

 Samuel Beckett's eyes stare into the fulness of the great deep and its unchanging calm . At long intervals they close with gentle suddenness of flesh that tightens, often without anger, and closes on itself .

 Samuel Beckett has written 236 books . He is currently living in a small apartment in New York City . Beckett says he fits in the room as well as he can .

 "If I ever stop talking it will be because there is nothing more to be said," Bob says . "I simply believe I can say nothing that is not true, I mean that has not happened, it’s not the same thing but no matter"

 There are three of them, and how it sways and totters, but rather poor in colour . Perhaps they are cold, that they rub against each other so, for friction maintains heat and brings it back when it's gone .

 'He could not see as his true sin, but as yet another atonement which had miscarried and plunged him in it deeper than before' 'And it was often in fear and trembling that he suffered, saying, 'This will cost me dear' 'Rain pelted down on his back with the sound first of a drum, but in

 Samuel Beckett was more reptile than bird and could suffer mutilation and survive . People are never content to suffer but they must have heat and cold, rain and its contrary which is fine weather .

 Samuel Beckett had to do a great part of his life's work with his bare hands . Beckett could no longer distinguish plants destined for the embellishment of the home from weeds .

 Samuel Beckett's latest book, 248, is published by Simon & Schuster . It is based on Becket's experiences in Spain . Macmann was incapable of picking his steps and choosing where to put down his feet .

 I loved to finger and caress the hard shapely objects that were there in my deep pockets, it was my way of talking to them and reassuring them . Or I buried them, or threw them into the sea, with all my strength as far as possible from the land . I disposed of things I loved but could no longer serve .

 "I can’t help it, I must state the facts, without trying to understand, to the end" "If it was my hat I might put it on, that would remind me of the good old days" "I wonder what my last words will be, written, but the others do not endure, but vanish"

 "The pots do not seem to be mine, I simply have the use of them" "My possessions have weakened me, if I start talking about them again I shall" "Now that I have stopped eating I produce less waste and so eliminate less"

 "I wonder if I could not contrive, wielding my stick like a punt-pole, to move my bed" "I suppose the wisest thing now is to live it over again, meditate upon it and be edified"

 "I feel less weak, perhaps they fed me while I slept" "Nothing is mine any more, according to my definition, except my exercise-book, my lead and the French pencil, assuming it really exists" "I did well to stop my inventory, it was a happy thought"

 The thin yellow arms contorted by some kind of bone deformation were at first sight her most revolting features . She wore by way of earrings two long ivory crucifixes which swayed wildly at the least movement of her head .

 "Not one day goes by that I do not give thanks to God, on my bended knees, for having found you," he writes . "Let us profit first by this superb sundown, after the long day of storm"

 Macmann wrote tetty-beshy to offer to his mistress, for he felt she was drifting away from him . "I was never beautiful or well-proportioned, but ugly and even misshapen"

 Moll found a long yellow canine bared to the roots and carved, with the drill probably, to represent the celebrated sacrifice . She let go her lip, which sprang back into place with a smack . This incident made a strong impression on Macmann . Moll's hair began to fall out in abundance and she confessed to Macmann that she

 Lemuel remained for a long time plunged in thought, sometimes for as long as ten minutes or a quarter of an hour, motionless or scratching his head or his armpit . Physical pain, on the contrary, seemed to help him greafly .

 A market-gardener, he had*’ only one eye and wore side-whiskers, was on his way home from the butcher’s . "He must have been here from nine to twelve, then from two to six, now I have it"

 "I thought he was going to kill me, with its long sharp point, he had only to plunge it in my heart" "My voice has gone dead, the rest will follow" "The only thing you must never speak of is your happiness, I can think of nothing else for the moment"

 All the people I have ever caught a glimpse of, at close quarters or at a distance, may file past from now on, that is obvious . They will all be armed with something to lean on and rummage in my things with, they will all give me a clout on the head to begin with . How is it I am not thirsty

 Samuel Becket's autobiography is written from the point of view of a man who has lost his life . The author begins by writing about himself before writing about the rest of his life and the people he has met .

 The writer describes a plateau with gentle slopes . The entire top was occupied by the domain of Saint John . No questions were ever asked in the House of Sain John of God .

 Photographer Macmann tore up this photograph and threw the bits in the air, one windy day . What he liked best in this picture was the chair, the seat of which seemed to be made of straw .

 Lemuel ate six pieces of bacon, his own and the others, ate all the fat off them, sucked the rinds and threw them back in the soup . Lemuel slept on the bare boards and even off them ate his lesser meals .

 Lemuel held Macmann by the arm as he tried to free him from his cell . Macmann was furious at having been shut up in his cell all morning . Lemuel, Macmann, the Saxon and the giant sat on one of the seats .

 Lemuel and Lady Pedal were on their way back to their parents . Lemuel produced a hatchet from under his cloak and dealt himself a few smart blows on the skull, with the heel, for safety . The giant had refused to leave the boat so that the Saxon could not leave it either .

 Lemuel made Macmann and the two others get into the boat and got into it himself . Then they set out, all six, from the shore . This tangle of grey bodies is they. Silent, dim, perhaps cling- ing to one anerther . Lemuel: "I shall not be alone, in the beginning. I

 Will the day come when Malone will pass before me no more? Malone appears and disappears with the punc- tuality of clockwork, always at the same remove, the same velocity in the same direction . One of these days I’ll challenge him .

 Samuel Beckett is convinced he is not deaf, but half-convinced . Beckett pletely pletesly so so many people can be seen . A man may die at the age of seventy without ever hav- ing had the possibility of seeing Halley’s comet .

 "The things they have told me! about men, the light of day. I refused to believe them. But some of it has stuck. I continue to see Malone as darkly as the first time"

 "In order to speak, one starts speaking as if it were possible to stop at will" "There is no night so deep, so I have heard tell, that it may not be pierced in the end"

 "I am Matthew and I am the angel, I who came before the cross, before the sinning, came into the world, came here. I could know. But I shall not know. Not this time" "Take your choice, which spews me out or swallows me"

 Prometheus: "I thought I was right in enlisting these sufferers of my pains. I was wrong" Prometheus was delivered twenty-nine thou-sand nine hundred and seventy years after having purged his offence .

 "I invented love, music, the smell of flowering currant, to escape from me," he writes . "Organs, a without, it's easy to imagine, a god, it’s unavoidable, you imagine them"

 Samuel Beckett was not inattentive the last time he heard a murmur telling of another and le«s unpleasant method of ending his troubles . "I was sufficiently impressed by certain expressions to make a vow, while continuing my yelps, never to forget them" "I see myself slip- ping, though not yet at the

 The writer is unable to find the right pensum to say his lesson . When he has finished his pensum he will still have to reconstitute the right lesson . This is perhaps about you and your goal at hand .

 Carmagnole says he has to say something about himself in order to be believed . He asks himself if he should praise his master or admit that he is Mahood .

 "Even Mahood has left me. I’m alone" Beckett: 'Not to have been a dupe will have been my best possession, my best deed" "No one compels me to, there is no one, it's an accident, a fact"

 "I've been he an instant, hobbling through a nature which, it is only fair to say, was on the barren side" "I'm not far short of a man, just barely a man" "After each thrust of crutches I stopped to devour a narcotic and measure the distance gone"

 At the centre of this enclosure stood a small rotunda, windowless and windowless . The children increased in stature, the periods of Ptomaine grew pale, the ancients glowered at each other .

 "Never once have I stopped. My halts do not count. Their purpose was to enable me to go on" "I had sutik to the ground of my own free will" Samuel Beckett's wife announced the latest news, for them to take to bed .

 "I am there to be pained, that is what my tempters have never grasped," he writes . "So long as one’s thoughts arc somewhere everything is permitted, as if nothing had happened"

 Samuel Beckett claims he was forced to vomit by the stench of his family's remains . He claims he felt annoyance at having to flounder in such muck at the moment . Beckett: "I was never anywhere but here, no one ever got me out of here"

 "They’ve blown me up with their voices, like a balloon, and even as I collapse it’s them I hear," he writes . "I do not move and never shall again, unless it be under the impulsion of a third party"

 Police tolerate 330 Samuel Beckett by the police . Beckett is a writer who lives in the south of England . He has written a book about his experiences in the South .

 SAMUEL BECKETT was blinded by the jar a few inches from the edge of it . "I forget how it goes on. Perhaps it stops there, perhaps they stopped it there"

 Samuel Beckett's last words to himself were: 'Come come, a little co-operation please, finish dying, it's the least you might do' Beckett: 'To have forever before my eyes, when I opeif them, approximately the same set of hallucinations exactly is a joy'

 "It is quite possible I have all that is required to give them satisfaction" "Little by little I’ll get used to it, admonished by them, used to the scene" "It will perhaps be less restful than I appear to think"

 Samuel Beckett is best known for his work on The Godfather . He has written a book about his experiences . "Words pronouncing me alive, since that's how they want me to be, I don't know why"

 "It's time I gave this solitary a name, nothing doing without proper names. I therefore baptise nim Worm. I don't like it, but I haven't much choice" "I swear it, the other never caught me, I was never delivered from him"

 Samuel Beckett writes about his thoughts while waiting for something intelligible to take place . Watt: "Perhaps it’s the characteristic, among others, of Mahood to note, even if he does not always succeed in doing so, certain things"

 Mahood once knew a doctor who held that scientifically speaking, the latest breath could only issue from the . The bliss of what he has achieved is clear, simple and exhausting . The next thing is somehow to connect this with Madeleine and her great goodness .

 Samuel Beckett left the world of his former life behind him . The belief in God is sometimes lost following a period of intensified zeal and observance . He has realised they could not be about me, he has aban- doned, it is I who win .

 "I have no voice, in this matter I have none. That’s one of the reasons why I confused myself with Worm" "I’m like Worm, without voice or reason" 'I wish him a happy time. Worm to play, his lead, I wish him every success'

 Samuel Beckett was a student at Cambridge . He wrote a book about his experience of being a ventriloquist . Now he has forgotten who Worm is, he will begin to be him .

 Samuel Beckett reflects on his life in prison . 'I sometimes seem to remember what I was like when I was Worm, and not yet delivered into their hands" 'I need nobody, they’ll start sprouting under my arse, unaided' 'I still leave much to be desired, I have no technique'

 Samuel Beckett is the son of a woman who died in childbirth . "I don't hear what they say, all I know is they are still there, they haven't done, with me"

 "Millions of different sounds, always the same, recurring without pause, are all one requires to sprout a head" Worm is now with breath in his nostrils, only remains for him to suffocate . "The meeflanism matters little, provided I succeed in saying, before I go deaf"

 A head has grown out of his ear, the better to enrage him, that must be it . The circumvolutionisation will be seen too later, when they get him out . A transformer in which sound is turned, without the help of reason, to rage .

 Fen is now in a pit, no avenue will have Feen left unexplored . Worm cannot set himself in motion, though he often desires to . The slopes are 362 SAMUEL BECKETT gentle that meet where he lies .

 The Worm suffers only from the noise which prevents him from being what he was meant to be . Worm being in the singular, as it turned out, they are in the plural, to avoid confusion .

 Worm has been in a dark place for a long time, but his colour is fading . A ball, revolving one knows not how about him, that would be better than nothing . Passing by at the right distance, the right level, say once a month, that’s not exorbitant .

 "I see me, I see my place, there is nothing to show it, nothing to dis- tinguish it" "If only this voice would stop, for a second, it would seem long to me" "There’s no air here, air is to make you choke, light is to close your eyes" "

 "Lamps unattended will not bum on forever, on the contrary, they will go out, little by little, without attendants to charge them anew, and go silent, in the end . Then all will start over again, obviously . So it will never be known, Worm will never know, let the silence be black, or let it

 Samuel Beckett is writing a book about his experiences in the military . "I expiate vilely, like a pig, dumb, uncomprehending, possessed of no utterance but theirs" The book is due out next year .

 The words have to be ratified by the proper authority, that takes time . Respite then, once in a way, if one can call that respite, when one waits to know one'

 Worm is notoriously secretive, and has never been seen in public with Mahood . "They achieve nothing, neither what they want, nor the obscure infamy"

 Mahood will stay where he was put, stuck up to his skull in his vase, opposite the shambles . "From it you set out to look for a face, to it you return having found nothing, nothing worth having"

 Worm is always called to the rescue when things go badly, he talks all the time of merit and situations . "Thanks to me all will be over, and they'll depart, one by one, or they'll drop" "Bewitching prospect if ever there was one, they are"

 "Our hell will be heaven to them, after what you’ve done to them," he said . "I’ll bo in the bag, that’s how I see it, I see nothing, they don’t understand" "All the dogs came crawling and dug the dog a tomb and wrote upon the tomb

 Spermatozoon. 383 is the name of a fictional character . The book is about a young boy who becomes a sperm .

 "T’m alone here, the first and the last, I never made anyone suffer . I’ll never know peace, neither will they, but with this difference, that they don’t want it, they say they don't want it . After all perhaps they’re right, how could I want it?

 Samuel Beckett is best known for his novel, The Passenger . "I’ve two surfaces and no thickness, perhaps that’s what I feel, myself vibrating," he says .

 "I’ve got nowhere, in their affair, that’s what galls them, they want me there somewhere, anywhere" "What has God done to us, nothing, and Where am I?" "Where am I, where is the place where I've always been, where are the others, who is talking, not

 "I am talking, thirsting, starving, let it stand, in the ice aid in the furnace" "I seek what it is I hear, I hear them, now it comes back to me" Fear of sound is past, nothing but fear, nothing of all its due but fear cen- tupled, fear of its shadow

 'I seek nothing, nothirfcfc I never doubted. There was never any doubt that I was going to do this' 'It's only the beginning, how I manage, under such conditions to do what I'm doing' 'I will say what is to be said and then say what it was, that will be j

 "Silence to tell the truth does not appear to have been very conspicuous up to now, but appearances may sometimes be deceptive," he writes . "I never threw anything away of all the things I found, never found anything that I didn't lose"

 "I'm not at home to anything, my doors are shut against them," he writes . "Perhaps that’s how I’ll find silence, and peace at last, by opening my doors and letting myself be devoured," he says .

 "You see nothing, hear nothing, you hear the long kiss of dead water and mud, aloft at less than a score of fathoms men come and go, you dream of them" "I’ll tell one of Mahood’s old tales, no matter which, they are all alike, they won't tire

 "If I could learn something by heart I'd be saved, I have to keep on saying the same thing" "I invented my memories, not knowing what I was doing, not one is of me" "It's the end that is the worst, no, it's the beginning that is th<?worst"

 "I always believed I would never go silent, you can’t call that believing, it’s my walls," he said . "I did what I could, a thing beyond my strength, and often for exhaustion I gave up doing it" "I don't know if I ever lived, I have really no opinion on the

 Samuel Beckett wrote a book about his experiences in prison . The book is called 'The Prisoner of Jywe' 'I was always aged, always ageing, and ageing makes no diffoence'

 "If I could be in a forest, caught in a thicket, or wandering round in circles, it would be the end of this blither" "I notice one thing, the others have vanished, completely, I don't like it"

 Samuel Beckett's latest novel is called 'I am he' and is written by Beckett himself . It's not I, I am he, after all, why not say it, I must have said it .

 'I can’t suppose any- THE UNNAMABLE 4W thing, I have to go on, that’s what I’m doing, let others suppose' 'Sometimes you’d think I was reasoning, I've no objection, they must have taught me reasoning too'

 "I don't know who it's all about, that's all I know, no, I must know something else" "The man on duty speaks of himself, it's not that, of others, it’s not that of others" "I am far, far, what does that mean, no need to be far,

 "I must have understood, I must have wanted it, wanted the eye, for my own" "I have tried, all the things they’ve told me, and they come in useful still, when I think of them, that too, you must go on think too"

 "I thought they were over, perhaps it’s a new one, lepping fresh, is it the return to the world of fable, no, just a reminder, to make me regret what I have lost, long to be again" "At every instant I’m there, listen to me speaking of it, I

 "I have nb explanations to offer, none to demand, the comma will come where I’ll drown for good, then the silence, how it drags on" "I'm alone, perhaps the first, or perhaps the last, talking alone, listening alone" "There are not two prisons, it’s my par

 "There they flre again, to give me quit- tance, waiting for me to say I’m someone" "Perhaps that’s all they’re waiting for, perhaps it will be I . But do I really see nothing?"

 "I say what I' hear, I hear what I say, I don't know, one or the other, or both" "I'm not suffering enough yet, it’s not yet my turn, the topographical and anatomical information in particular is lost on me"

 "It will be the silence, full of murmurs, distant cries, the usual silence, spent listening, waiting, waiting for the voice, the cries abate, like all cries . I’ll recognise it, in the end I'll wake, and never sleep again"




Iteration 2


 Samuel Beckett is in his mother's room and sleeps in her bed . He doesn't know how he got there but says he was helped by a man . He says: 'I piss and shit in her pot. I have taken her place'

 Willem de Klerk's novel is about a man on crutches who tries to catch up with a mangy dog . The author says he knew he could catch the man, he just had to want to .

 Author's mother never refused to see him. She never called him son, fortunately, he couldn't have borne it . "I called her Mag because for me, without my knowing' why the letter g abolished the syllable Ma"

 Samuel BBCKETT was interrogated by a police official at a police station . Official had a straw hat on his head and protruding from his mouth was a thin flexible object . He said: 'They let me keep my hat on, I don't know why'

 The MOLLOY 27 is a book of short stories written by the author . Samuel Beckett was imprisoned in a barracks in China . Beckett has always cried out more or less openly .

 'I counted them. Three hundred and fifteen farts in nine-teens hours' 'I had-neither taste nor humour, I lost them early on' 'In winter, under his greatcoat, I wrapped myself in swathes of newspaper'

 Samuel Beckett needed to help his mother get rid of her dog . "I have never been particularly resolute, I mean given to resolutions, but rather inclined to plunge headlong, into the shit" "All I know is what the words know, and the dead things"

 The dog had ticks in his ears, I have an eye for such things, they were buried with him . Funny she should have chosen, to bury her dog beneath, the only tree I can identify . In the end it was magic that had the honour of my ruins .

 SAMUEL BECKETT is a 44-year-old British journalist and author . He says he pushed rather than struck them, thrust at them and lunged . "I wither as the living can not. I will listen no longer"

 Samuel Beckett met Lousse in a garden in a town in the south of France . Lousse loved spike- lavender above all other herbs and flowers, because of its smell .

 "She gathered this lavender when it bloomed I presume, left it to dry and then made it up into lavender-bags that she put in her cupboards to perfume her underclothing and house-linen" 'I mis- judged the distance separating me from the other world' 'I preferred the garden to the house,

 'I accuse her without ill-feeling of having drugged my food and drink with noxious and insipid powders and potions' 'With Lousse my health got no worse, or scarcely,' he writes . 'Never did I see a woman within these precincts, and by precincts I do not merely mean the precincts'

 "She had a hole between her legs, oh not the bunghole I had always imagined, but a slit, and in this I put, or rather she put, my so-called virile member" Edith gave him money after each session, to me who would have consented to probe it to the bottom . "My mother

 Samuel Beckett's diary is written when he is in pain . Beckett writes that his legs are as stiff as a life-sentence .

 Molloy spent the night in the desert before setting out on his journey . Describes the night as 'nauseating but not pestilent, less rat than toad'

 SAMUEL BECKETT. replaced the stones by the four in the right pocket of his trousers . Then replaced the four remaining stones in the left pocket with the four from the right . "I could double the number of my pockets, were it only by dividing each pocket in two"

 The 73 series of sucks and transfers starts with the first six stones back in the supply pocket . 'Deep down I didn’t give a tinker’s curse about being off my balance' Samuel Beckett lived in a cave in a swamp between his town and the sea .

 Author was on crutches for most of his life due to a broken leg . "The noise betrayed me, I turned purple" "Not a word, not a word against the crises that seized me"

 Beckett: "I swung, that’s all that matters, in an ever-widening arc" "Some days I advanced no more than thirty or forty paces" "It is too late now to do anything about it, that I have laid too much stress on my legs" "I might have loved him, I think

 "I stopped being half-witted and became sly, whenever I was in the forest" "I considered that the forest was no worse then. And it w£s better, in this sense, that I was there"

 Moran was savour- ing the day of rest, while deploring the importance attached to it, in certain parishes . To work, even to play on Sunday was not of necessity reprehensible, in his opinion .

 Samuel Beckett was not a neighbor but had journeyed from afar on purpose to disturb me . Moran had not yet begun to take the matter seriously .

 Gaber was a free-thinker. He knew my habits, my Sunday habits . To try and solve the problem of transport under such conditions was madness .

 The interview with Father Ambrose left me with a painful impression . He was still the same dear man, and yet not nobility . The Eisner sisters were not bad neighbours, as neigh-bours go . They made a little too much music, that was the only fault I find with them .

 Anger should be left to cool, in my opinion, crisis to pass, before one operates . Samuel Beckett was a member of a secret organisation . He and Gaber thought they were the only ones of their kind .

 Molloy, or Mollose, was no stranger to me. If I had colleagues, I might have suspected I had spoken of him to them. I had no colleagues and knew nothing of the circumstances in which I had learnt of his existence. Mol swayed, to and fro, like a bear . He rolled his head, uttering

 Anger led me sometimes to slight excesses of language, I could not regret them . Naturally I con- fessed them to Martha and laughed so much I began to hiccup . Father Ambrose gave his son an enema, with salt water, but he struggled, but not for long .

 Samuel Beckett took his son's favourite stamps . The Togo one mark carm! 10 with the pretty boat, the Nyassa 1901 ten reis were found . Others concerned the dog Zulu, the perfumes Sharpened tenfold by the rain .

 Samuel Beckett's son was crying when he left his room . He cried: 'Shame on you, I cried, you ill-bred little pig! I would get angry' Moran made ready to go without knowing where he was going .

 "I was called elsewhere by the image of my son no longer behind me, but before me" "He was still a little on the young side, my son, for the great deeds of vengeance"

 Molloy Y 133 is a novel about the life of a young man in England . Samuel Beckett was born and raised in a small market-town called Bally in the north of the country .

 "I despaired at first ever bending my leg again and then, through sheer determination, did succeed in bending it, slightly" Beckett never saw one of his patients again .

 Jacques Moran sent his son to buy a bicycle in Hole, the nearest town in Turdy . Moran: Do you imagine a second-hand bicycle costs four pounds ten?

 "I expected him to devour it there and then . But he broke it in two and put it in his coat-pockets" "I missed myself as best I could . I reached up above my head and broke off a bough and hurled it violently in the air . "I hope he enjoyed it"

 Samuel Beckett was stranded in the middle of the English countryside when he was hailed by a man . Beckett dragged him by the ankles and dragged him backwards into the shelter . "I dismantled the shelter and threw the branches over the body"

 "There is no use my counting them, for I do not know how many there were" "I wiped each key on the grass, before putting it in my pocket, whether it needed wiping" "To kill time I asked myself a certain number of questions"

 Samuel Beckett's son straddled the frame of his bicycle when the back wheel buckled and we fell . He followed, half dragged, half hopping . "I trembled for my testicles . Happily it was the sick leg . For waking early I found myself alone"

 Samuel Beckett's son left him with his bag, umbrella and fifteen shillings . Moran found Gaber sitting on a tree-stump, half asleep and half asleep .

 Samuel Beckett set out on a quest to walk from Ballyba to Dublin . Beckett says purpose of the hum 'is not to emphasise the dance, but to vary it'

 'I not only knew who I was, but I had a sharper and clearer sense of my identity' 'I would never do my bees the wrong I had done my God,' he writes . 'Such sentiments could not fail to please a cattle breeder'

 Moran took a florin from Moran's knee a year ago . Moran: "I understood it, I understand it, all wrong perhaps. Does this mean I am freer now than I was? I do not know" Moran says: "My knee is no better. It is no worse either."

 Samuel Beckett fainting in an ambulance has left no trace on his mind . Beckett will start with his stories of a man, another about a woman, a thing and finally one about an item .

 The life of the Saposcats was full of axioms . "Sometimes I miss not being able to crawl around any more" "My body is what is called, unadvisedly perhaps, impotent" "There is virtually nothing it can do"

 Samuel Beckett wrote a book about his life . The book is called 'Sapo' and is published by Simon & Schuster . It is about a young man's life .

 "Sapo was born grave as others syphilitic. All alone, well hidden, played the clown, all alone, hour after hour" Beckett wrote of his experiences in a letter to a friend .

 Kaspar David Friedrich loved a tempestuous and bright night . Lambert's farm was in a hollow, flooded in winter and in summer burnt to a cinder . Lambert could speak of nothing but the pig he had just dispatched .

 Sapo spent long hours in that old kitchen where, neither indoors nor quite out of doors, he waited to be on his feet again . Among those who must have known, some arc dead and the others have forgotten . Sapo remained alone, by the window, the bowl of goat's milk on the table before him, forgotten .

 SAMUEL BECKETT writes about himself with the same pencil and in the same exercise book as about about about himself . He has a minimum of memory is indispensable, if one is to live .

 Lambert declared. I’ll kill Whitey tpmorrow. Edmund would soon be able to plough and harrow the place where it lay . Lambert's son Sapo arrived at the farm earlier than usual . Edmund paused to rest, leaned panting on the spade and smiled .

 The author was once in love with a parrot . He tried to teach it to say 'Nihil in intellects etc. agree' Suave mari magno, especially for the old salt . Edmund went up to bed, so as to masturbate in peace and comfort before his sister joined him .

 "I enjoy a kind of night and day, admittedly, often it is pitch dark, but in rather a different way" "The light, instead of being the dawn, turned out in a very short time to be the dusk" "My horse-sense tells me I have not yet quite ceased to gasp"

 SAMUEL BECKETT has the brainwave to live long enough to get acquainted with free carbonic gas . "I have felt so many strange things, so many baseless things assuredly" "I was never happy, but wishing night would never end and morning never come"

 The 232 SAMUEL BECKETT place is 232 Samuel BECKett place . For Macmann it is a true spring evening, an equinoctial gale howls along the quays bordered by high red houses .

 Samuel Beckett has written 236 books . He is currently living in a small apartment in New York City . Beckett says he fits in the room as well as he can .

 "If I ever stop talking it will be because there is nothing more to be said," Bob says . "I simply believe I can say nothing that is not true, I mean that has not happened, it’s not the same thing but no matter"

 'He could not see as his true sin, but as yet another atonement which had miscarried and plunged him in it deeper than before' 'And it was often in fear and trembling that he suffered, saying, 'This will cost me dear' 'Rain pelted down on his back with the sound first of a drum, but in

 Samuel Beckett's latest book, 248, is published by Simon & Schuster . Macmann was incapable of picking his steps and choosing where to put down his feet .

 "I buried them, or threw them into the sea, with all my strength as far as possible from the land" "If it was my hat I might put it on, that would remind me of the good old days" "I loved to finger and caress the hard shapely objects that were there in my deep pockets"

 "My possessions have weakened me, if I start talking about them again I shall" "Now that I have stopped eating I produce less waste and so eliminate less" "I wonder if I could not contrive, wielding my stick like a punt-pole, to move my bed"

 The thin yellow arms contorted by some kind of bone deformation were at first sight her most revolting features . She wore by way of earrings two long ivory crucifixes which swayed wildly at the least movement of her head .

 Macmann wrote tetty-beshy to offer to his mistress, for he felt she was drifting away from him . "Not one day goes by that I do not give thanks to God, on my bended knees, for having found you," he writes .

 Lemuel remained for a long time plunged in thought, sometimes for as long as ten minutes or a quarter of an hour, motionless or scratching his head or armpit . Physical pain, on the contrary, seemed to help him greafly . Moll's hair began to fall out in abundance and she confessed to Macmann that she

 "I thought he was going to kill me, with its long sharp point, he had only to plunge it in my heart" "The only thing you must never speak of is your happiness, I can think of nothing else for the moment" "He must have been here from nine to twelve, then from two to six, now I have

 Samuel Becket's autobiography is written from the point of view of a man who has lost his life . The author begins by writing about himself before writing about the rest of his life and the people he has met .

 Photographer Macmann tore up this photograph and threw the bits in the air . What he liked best in this picture was the chair, the seat of which seemed to be made of straw .

 Lemuel ate six pieces of bacon, his own and the others, ate all the fat off them, sucked the rinds and threw them back in the soup . Lemuel slept on the bare boards and even off them ate his lesser meals .

 Lemuel and Lady Pedal were on their way back to their parents . Lemuel produced a hatchet from under his cloak and dealt himself a few smart blows on the skull . The giant had refused to leave the boat so that the Saxon could not leave it either .

 Samuel Beckett is convinced he is not deaf, but half-convinced . Will the day come when Malone will pass before me no more? Malone appears and disappears with the punc- tuality of clockwork . One of these days I’ll challenge him .

 "I continue to see Malone as darkly as the first time" "In order to speak, one starts speaking as if it were possible to stop at will" "There is no night so deep, so I have heard tell, that it may not be pierced in the end"

 Prometheus: "I thought I was right in enlisting these sufferers of my pains. I was wrong" Prometheus was delivered twenty-nine thou-sand nine hundred and seventy years after having purged his offence .

 Samuel Beckett was not inattentive the last time he heard a murmur telling of another and le«s unpleasant method of ending his troubles . "I invented love, music, the smell of flowering currant, to escape from me," he writes . "Organs, a without, it's easy to imagine, a god,

 Carmagnole says he has to say something about himself in order to be believed . When he has finished his pensum he will still have to reconstitute the right lesson . This is perhaps about you and your goal at hand .

 "Even Mahood has left me. I’m alone" Beckett: 'Not to have been a dupe will have been my best possession, my best deed" "I've been he an instant, hobbling through a nature which, it is only fair to say, was on the barren side"

 "I had sutik to the ground of my own free will" Samuel Beckett's wife announced the latest news . "Never once have I stopped. My halts do not count"

 "I am there to be pained, that is what my tempters have never grasped," he writes . Beckett: "I was never anywhere but here, no one ever got me out of here" Beckett claims he was forced to vomit by the stench of his family's remains .

 "They’ve blown me up with their voices, like a balloon, and even as I collapse it’s them I hear," he writes . "I do not move and never shall again, unless it be under the impulsion of a third party"

 Samuel Beckett was blinded by the jar a few inches from the edge of it . His last words to himself were: 'Come come, a little co-operation please, finish dying' Beckett: 'To have forever before my eyes, when I opeif them, approximately the same set of hallucinations exactly is a joy'

 Samuel Beckett is best known for his work on The Godfather . He has written a book about his experiences . "It will perhaps be less restful than I appear to think"

 "It's time I gave this solitary a name, nothing doing without proper names. I therefore baptise nim Worm. I don't like it, but I haven't much choice" "Perhaps it’s the characteristic, among others, of Mahood to note, even if he does not always succeed in doing so, certain things

 Mahood once knew a doctor who held that scientifically speaking, the latest breath could only issue from the lungs . The bliss of what he has achieved is clear, simple and exhausting . The next thing is somehow to connect this with Madeleine and her great goodness .

 Samuel Beckett was a student at Cambridge and wrote a book about ventriloquisting . Now he has forgotten who Worm is, he will begin to be him . "I'm like Worm, without voice or reason"

 Samuel Beckett reflects on his life in prison . 'I sometimes seem to remember what I was like when I was Worm, and not yet delivered into their hands' 'I still leave much to be desired, I have no technique'

 Worm is now with breath in his nostrils, only remains for him to suffocate . "Millions of different sounds, always the same, recurring without pause, are all one requires to sprout a head"

 The slopes are 362 SAMUEL BECKETT gentle that meet where he lies . The Worm suffers only from the noise which prevents him from being what he was meant to be .

 Worm has been in a dark place for a long time, but his colour is fading . Passing by at the right distance, the right level, say once a month, that's not exorbitant . A ball, revolving one knows not how about him, that would be better than nothing .

 Samuel Beckett is writing a book about his experiences in the military . "I expiate like a pig, dumb, uncomprehending, possessed of no utterance but theirs" The book is due out next year .

 Worm is notoriously secretive, and has never been seen in public with Mahood . "They achieve nothing, neither what they want, nor the obscure infamy"

 Mahood will stay where he was put, stuck up to his skull in his vase . "From it you set out to look for a face, to it you return having found nothing, nothing worth having"

 "All the dogs came crawling and dug the dog a tomb and wrote upon the tomb ... Spermatozoon" "Our hell will be heaven to them, after what you’ve done to them," he said . "I’ll bo in the bag, that’s how I see it, I see nothing,

 Samuel Beckett is best known for his novel, The Passenger . "I've two surfaces and no thickness, perhaps that’s what I feel," he says . Beckett: "After all perhaps they’re right, how could I want it?"

 "I’ve got nowhere, in their affair, that’s what galls them, they want me there somewhere, anywhere" "I am talking, thirsting, starving, let it stand, in the ice aid in the furnace" "What has God done to us, nothing, and Where am I?" "I seek

 "I seek nothing, nothirfcfc I never doubted. There was never any doubt that I was going to do this" "Silence to tell the truth does not appear to have been very conspicuous up to now, but appearances may sometimes be deceptive," he writes .

 "I'm not at home to anything, my doors are shut against them," he writes . "Perhaps that’s how I’ll find silence, and peace at last, by opening my doors and letting myself be devoured," he says . "You see nothing, hear nothing, you hear the long kiss of dead water and

 "I invented my memories, not knowing what I was doing, not one is of me" "I always believed I would never go silent, you can’t call that believing, it’s my walls"

 Samuel Beckett wrote a book about his experiences in prison . The book is called 'The Prisoner of Jywe' 'I was always aged, always ageing, and ageing makes no diffoence'

 Samuel Beckett's latest novel is called 'I am he' and is written by Beckett himself . 'Sometimes you’d think I was reasoning, I've no objection, they must have taught me reasoning too'

 "I don't know who it's all about, that's all I know, no, I must know something else" "The man on duty speaks of himself, it's not that, of others, it’s not that of others" "I am far, far, what does that mean, no need to be far,

 "I thought they were over, perhaps it’s a new one, lepping fresh" "I have nb explanations to offer, none to demand, the comma will come where I’ll drown for good, then the silence, how it drags on" "At every instant I'm there, listen to me speaking of

 "I say what I' hear, I hear what I say, I don't know, one or the other, or both" "There they flre again, to give me quit- tance, waiting for me to say I’m someone" "Perhaps that’s all they’re waiting for, perhaps it

 "I'll recognise it, in the end I'll wake, and never sleep again" "It will be the silence, full of murmurs, distant cries, the usual silence, spent listening, waiting, waiting for the voice"




Iteration 3


 Willem de Klerk's novel is about a man on crutches who tries to catch up with a mangy dog . The author says he knew he could catch the man, he just had to want to .

 Samuel BBCKETT was interrogated by a police official at a police station . Official had a straw hat on his head and protruding from his mouth was a thin flexible object .

 The MOLLOY 27 is a book of short stories written by the author . Samuel Beckett was imprisoned in a barracks in China .

 Samuel Beckett needed to help his mother get rid of her dog . The dog had ticks in his ears, I have an eye for such things, they were buried with him . "I have never been particularly resolute, I mean given to resolutions, but rather inclined to plunge headlong into the shit"

 Samuel Beckett met Lousse in a garden in a town in the south of France . Lousse loved spike- lavender above all other herbs and flowers, because of its smell . Beckett says he pushed rather than struck them, thrust at them and lunged .

 'I accuse her without ill-feeling of having drugged my food and drink with noxious and insipid powders and potions' 'With Lousse my health got no worse, or scarcely,' he writes . 'Never did I see a woman within these precincts, and by precincts I do not merely mean the precincts'

 Samuel Beckett's diary is written when he is in pain . Beckett writes that his legs are as stiff as a life-sentence . Edith gave him money after each session .

 Molloy spent the night in the desert before setting out on his journey . Describes the night as 'nauseating but not pestilent, less rat than toad'

 Samuel Beckett lived in a cave in a swamp between his town and the sea . Author was on crutches for most of his life due to a broken leg . "The noise betrayed me, I turned purple"

 "I swung, that’s all that matters, in an ever-widening arc" Beckett: "Some days I advanced no more than thirty or forty paces" "I stopped being half-witted and became sly, whenever I was in the forest" "It w£s better, in this sense, that I

 Moran was savour- ing the day of rest, while deploring the importance attached to it in certain parishes . To work, even to play on Sunday was not of necessity reprehensible, in his opinion .

 The interview with Father Ambrose left me with a painful impression. He was still the same dear man, and yet not nobility . Gaber was a free-thinker. He knew my habits, my Sunday habits . To try and solve the problem of transport under such conditions was madness .

 Anger should be left to cool, in my opinion, before one operates . Samuel Beckett was a member of a secret organisation . He and Gaber thought they were the only ones of their kind .

 Samuel Beckett took his son's favourite stamps . Togo one mark carm! 10 with the pretty boat, the Nyassa 1901 ten reis were found . Others concerned the dog Zulu, the perfumes Sharpened tenfold by the rain .

 Samuel Beckett's son was crying when he left his room . He cried: 'Shame on you, I cried, you ill-bred little pig!' Moran made ready to go without knowing where he was going .

 Molloy Y 133 is a novel about the life of a young man in England . Samuel Beckett was born and raised in a small market-town called Bally .

 Jacques Moran sent his son to buy a bicycle in Hole, the nearest town in Turdy . Moran: "I expected him to devour it there and then . But he broke it in two and put it in his coat-pockets"

 Samuel Beckett was stranded in the middle of the English countryside when he was hailed by a man . Beckett dragged him by the ankles and dragged him backwards into a shelter . "I dismantled the shelter and threw the branches over the body"

 Samuel Beckett's son straddled the frame of his bicycle when the back wheel buckled and we fell . Moran found Gaber sitting on a tree-stump, half asleep and half asleep .

 Samuel Beckett set out on a quest to walk from Ballyba to Dublin . Beckett says purpose of the hum 'is not to emphasise the dance, but to vary it' 'Such sentiments could not fail to please a cattle breeder'

 Moran took a florin from Beckett's knee a year ago . Moran says: "My knee is no better either. It is no worse either" Moran: "I understood it, I understand it, all wrong perhaps"

 Samuel Beckett wrote a book about his life . The book is called 'Sapo' and is published by Simon & Schuster . It is about a young man's life .

 Kaspar David Friedrich loved a tempestuous and bright night . "Sapo was born grave as others syphilitic. All alone, well hidden, played the clown, all alone" Beckett .

 SAMUEL BECKETT writes about himself with the same pencil and in the same exercise book as about about about himself . He has a minimum of memory is indispensable, if one is to live .

 The author was once in love with a parrot . He tried to teach it to say 'Nihil in intellects etc. agree' Suave mari magno, especially for the old salt . Lambert declared. I’ll kill Whitey tpmorrow .

 "I enjoy a kind of night and day, admittedly, often it is pitch dark, but in rather a different way" "My horse-sense tells me I have not yet quite ceased to gasp" "I was never happy, but wishing night would never end and morning never come"

 Samuel Beckett has written 236 books . He is currently living in a small apartment in New York City . Beckett says he fits in the room as well as he can .

 "If I ever stop talking it will be because there is nothing more to say," Bob says . "I simply believe I can say nothing that is not true, I mean that has not happened"

 Samuel Beckett's latest book, 248, is published by Simon & Schuster . Macmann was incapable of picking his steps and choosing where to put down his feet . "If it was my hat I might put it on, that would remind me of the good old days"

 The thin yellow arms contorted by some kind of bone deformation were at first sight her most revolting features . "My possessions have weakened me, if I start talking about them again I shall" "Now that I have stopped eating I produce less waste and so eliminate less"

 Macmann wrote tetty-beshy to offer to his mistress, for he felt she was drifting away from him . Lemuel remained for a long time plunged in thought, sometimes for as long as as long .

 Samuel Becket's autobiography is written from the point of view of a man who has lost his life . The author begins by writing about himself before writing about the rest of his life and the people he has met .

 Lemuel ate six pieces of bacon, his own and the others, ate all the fat off them, sucked the rinds and threw them back in the soup . Photographer Macmann tore up this photograph and threw the bits in the air .

 Lemuel and Lady Pedal were on their way back to their parents . Lemuel produced a hatchet from under his cloak and dealt himself a few smart blows on the skull . Samuel Beckett is convinced he is not deaf, but half-convinced .

 Prometheus: "I thought I was right in enlisting these sufferers of my pains. I was wrong" Prometheus was delivered twenty-nine thou-sand nine hundred and seventy years after having purged his offence .

 Carmagnole says he has to say something about himself in order to be believed . "I invented love, music, the smell of flowering currant, to escape from me," he writes . Samuel Beckett was not inattentive the last time he heard a murmur telling of another and le«s unpleasant method .

 "Even Mahood has left me. I’m alone" Beckett: 'Not to have been a dupe will have been my best possession, my best deed" "I've been he an instant, hobbling through a nature which, it is only fair to say, was on the barren side"

 "I am there to be pained, that is what my tempters have never grasped," he writes . Beckett: "I was never anywhere but here, no one ever got me out of here" Beckett claims he was forced to vomit by the stench of his family's remains .

 Samuel Beckett was blinded by the jar a few inches from the edge of it . His last words to himself were: 'Come come, a little co-operation please, finish dying' Beckett: 'To have forever before my eyes, when I opeif them, approximately the same set of hallucinations exactly is a joy'

 Mahood once knew a doctor who held that scientifically speaking, the latest breath could only issue from the lungs . The bliss of what he has achieved is clear, simple and exhausting . The next thing is somehow to connect this with Madeleine and her great goodness .

 Samuel Beckett was a student at Cambridge and wrote a book about ventriloquisting . Now he has forgotten who Worm is, he will begin to be him . Beckett: 'I'm like Worm, without voice or reason"

 The Worm suffers only from the noise which prevents him from being what he was meant to be . The slopes are 362 SAMUEL BECKETT gentle that meet where he lies .

 Samuel Beckett is writing a book about his experiences in the military . "I expiate like a pig, dumb, uncomprehending, possessed of no utterance but theirs" The book is due out next year .

 Worm is notoriously secretive, and has never been seen in public with Mahood . "They achieve nothing, neither what they want, nor the obscure infamy" Mahood will stay where he was put in his vase .

 "Our hell will be heaven to them, after what you’ve done to them," he said . Beckett: "I've two surfaces and no thickness, perhaps that’s what I feel"

 "I seek nothing, nothirfcfc I never doubted. There was never any doubt that I was going to do this" "Silence to tell the truth does not appear to have been very conspicuous up to now, but appearances may sometimes be deceptive," he writes .

 "I invented my memories, not knowing what I was doing, not one is of me" "I'm not at home to anything, my doors are shut against them," he writes . "Perhaps that’s how I’ll find silence, and peace at last, by opening my doors and letting myself be devoured"

 Samuel Beckett's latest novel is called 'I am he' and is written by Beckett himself . 'I was always aged, always ageing, and ageing makes no diffoence' Beckett wrote a book about his experiences in prison .

 "I don't know who it's all about, that's all I know, no, I must know something else" "I thought they were over, perhaps it’s a new one, lepping fresh" "The comma will come where I’ll drown for good, then the silence, how it drags on"

 "I say what I' hear, I hear what I say, I don't know, one or the other, or both" "I'll recognise it, in the end I'll wake, and never sleep" "There they flre again, to give me quit- tance, waiting for me to say I'm someone"




Iteration 4


 Willem de Klerk's novel is about a man on crutches who tries to catch up with a mangy dog . Author says he knew he could catch the man, he just had to want to . Samuel BBCKETT was interrogated by a police official at a police station .

 The MOLLOY 27 is a book of short stories written by the author . Samuel Beckett was imprisoned in a barracks in China . Beckett needed to help his mother get rid of her dog . The dog had ticks in his ears .

 Samuel Beckett met Lousse in a garden in a town in the south of France . Lousse loved spike- lavender above all other herbs and flowers, because of its smell . Beckett says he pushed rather than struck them, thrust at them and lunged . 'I accuse her without ill-feeling of having drugged my food

 Samuel Beckett writes that his legs are as stiff as a life-sentence . Edith gave him money after each session . Describes the night in the desert as 'nauseating but not pestilent, less rat than toad'

 Samuel Beckett lived in a cave in a swamp between his town and the sea . Author was on crutches for most of his life due to a broken leg . "The noise betrayed me, I turned purple"

 Moran was savour- ing the day of rest, while deploring the importance attached to it in certain parishes . To work, even to play on Sunday was not of necessity reprehensible, in his opinion . Gaber was still the same dear man, and yet not nobility .

 Anger should be left to cool, in my opinion, before one operates . Samuel Beckett was a member of a secret organisation . He and Gaber thought they were the only ones of their kind .

 Samuel Beckett's son was crying when he left his room . Moran made ready to go without knowing where he was going . Molloy Y 133 is a novel about the life of a young man in England .

 Jacques Moran sent his son to buy a bicycle in Hole, the nearest town in Turdy . Moran: "I expected him to devour it there and then but he broke it in two and put it in his coat-pockets"

 Samuel Beckett set out on a quest to walk from Ballyba to Dublin . Beckett says purpose of the hum 'is not to emphasise the dance, but to vary it' 'Such sentiments could not fail to please a cattle breeder'

 Samuel Beckett wrote a book about his life . The book is called 'Sapo' and is published by Simon & Schuster . Moran took a florin from Beckett's knee a year ago .

 Kaspar David Friedrich loved a tempestuous and bright night . "Sapo was born grave as others syphilitic. All alone, well hidden, played the clown, all alone" Beckett .

 Lambert was once in love with a parrot . He tried to teach it to say 'Nihil in intellects etc. agree' Suave mari magno, especially for the old salt . Lambert declared. I’ll kill Whitey tpmorrow .

 Samuel Beckett has written 236 books . He is currently living in a small apartment in New York City . Beckett: "If I ever stop talking it will be because there is nothing more to say"

 Samuel Beckett's latest book, 248, is published by Simon & Schuster . Macmann was incapable of picking his steps and choosing where to put down his feet .

 Samuel Becket's autobiography is written from the point of view of a man who has lost his life . Macmann wrote tetty-beshy to offer to his mistress, for he felt she was drifting away from him . Lemuel remained for a long time plunged in thought .

 Lemuel ate six pieces of bacon, his own and the others, ate all the fat off them, sucked the rinds and threw them back in the soup . Photographer Macmann tore up this photograph and threw the bits in the air .

 Carmagnole: "I invented love, music, the smell of flowering currant to escape from me" Prometheus was delivered twenty-nine thou-sand nine hundred and seventy years after having purged his offence .

 Beckett: 'Not to have been a dupe will have been my best possession, my best deed" Beckett claims he was forced to vomit by the stench of his family's remains . "I am there to be pained, that is what my tempters have never grasped," he writes .

 Samuel Beckett was blinded by the jar a few inches from the edge of it . His last words to himself were: 'Come come, a little co-operation please, finish dying' Mahood Mahood once knew a doctor who held that scientifically speaking, the latest breath could only issue from the lungs .

 Samuel Beckett was a student at Cambridge and wrote a book about ventriloquisting . He has forgotten who Worm is, he will begin to be him . Beckett: 'I'm like Worm, without voice or reason"

 Worm is notoriously secretive, and has never been seen in public with Mahood . "I expiate like a pig, dumb, uncomprehending, possessed of no utterance but theirs" Samuel Beckett is writing a book about his experiences in the military .

 "Our hell will be heaven to them, after what you’ve done to them," Beckett said . "Silence to tell the truth does not appear to have been very conspicuous up to now, but appearances may sometimes be deceptive," he writes .

 Samuel Beckett's latest novel is called 'I am he' and written by Beckett himself . 'I invented my memories, not knowing what I was doing, not one is of me' 'I'm not at home to anything, my doors are shut against them," he writes .

 "I don't know who it's all about, that's all I know, no, I must know something else" "I thought they were over, perhaps it’s a new one, lepping fresh" "The comma will come where I’ll drown for good, then the silence, how it drags on"




Iteration 5


 Willem de Klerk's novel is about a man on crutches who tries to catch up with a mangy dog . Author says he knew he could catch the man, he just had to want to . Samuel Beckett was imprisoned in a barracks in China .

 Samuel Beckett met Lousse in a garden in a town in the south of France . Lousse loved spike- lavender above all other herbs and flowers, because of its smell . Beckett says he pushed rather than struck them, thrust at them and lunged .

 Moran was savour- ing the day of rest, while deploring the importance attached to it in certain parishes . To work, even to play on Sunday was not of necessity reprehensible, in his opinion .

 Anger should be left to cool, in my opinion, before one operates . Samuel Beckett was a member of a secret organisation . He and Gaber thought they were the only ones of their kind .

 Samuel Beckett set out on a quest to walk from Ballyba to Dublin . Jacques Moran sent his son to buy a bicycle in Hole, the nearest town in Turdy . Beckett says purpose of the hum 'is not to emphasise the dance, but to vary it'

 Samuel Beckett wrote a book about his life . The book is called 'Sapo' and published by Simon & Schuster . Moran took a florin from Beckett's knee a year ago .

 Samuel Beckett has written 236 books . He is currently living in a small apartment in New York City . Beckett: "If I ever stop talking it will be because there is nothing more to say"

 Samuel Beckett's autobiography is written from the point of view of a man who has lost his life . Macmann wrote tetty-beshy to offer to his mistress, for he felt she was drifting away from him .

 Lemuel ate six pieces of bacon, his own and the others, ate all the fat off them, sucked the rinds and threw them back in the soup . Photographer Macmann tore up this photograph and threw the bits in the air .

 Samuel Beckett claims he was forced to vomit by the stench of his family's remains . "I am there to be pained, that is what my tempters have never grasped" Beckett: 'Not to have been a dupe will have been my best possession, my best deed"

 Samuel Beckett has forgotten who Worm is, he will begin to be him . Worm is notoriously secretive, and has never been seen in public with Mahood . Beckett: 'I'm like Worm, without voice or reason"

 Samuel Beckett's latest novel is called 'I am he' and written by Beckett himself . 'I invented my memories, not knowing what I was doing, not one is of me,' he writes . 'Our hell will be heaven to them, after what you’ve done to them," Beckett said .

 "I thought they were over, perhaps it’s a new one, lepping fresh" "The comma will come where I’ll drown for good, then the silence, how it drags on"




Iteration 6


 Willem de Klerk's novel is about a man on crutches who tries to catch up with a mangy dog . Author says he knew he could catch the man, he just had to want to . Samuel Beckett was imprisoned in a barracks in China .

 Anger should be left to cool, in my opinion, before one operates . Samuel Beckett was a member of a secret organisation . To work, even to play on Sunday was not of necessity reprehensible, in Moran's opinion .

 Samuel Beckett set out on a quest to walk from Ballyba to Dublin . Jacques Moran sent his son to buy a bicycle in Hole, the nearest town in Turdy . Moran took a florin from Beckett's knee a year ago .

 Samuel Beckett has written 236 books . He is currently living in a small apartment in New York City . Beckett: "If I ever stop talking it will be because there is nothing more to say"

 Lemuel ate six pieces of bacon, his own and the others, ate all the fat off them, sucked the rinds and threw them back in the soup . Photographer Macmann tore up this photograph and threw the bits in the air .

 Samuel Beckett's latest novel is called 'I am he' and written by Beckett himself . Worm is notoriously secretive, and has never been seen in public with Mahood .

 "I thought they were over, perhaps it’s a new one, lepping fresh" "The comma will come where I’ll drown for good, then the silence, how it drags on"




Iteration 7


 Willem de Klerk's novel is about a man on crutches who tries to catch up with a mangy dog . Author says he knew he could catch the man, he just had to want to . Samuel Beckett was imprisoned in a barracks in China .

 Samuel Beckett set out on a quest to walk from Ballyba to Dublin . Jacques Moran sent his son to buy a bicycle in Hole, the nearest town in Turdy . Moran took a florin from Beckett's knee a year ago .

 Photographer Macmann tore up this photograph and threw the bits in the air . Worm is notoriously secretive, and has never been seen in public with Mahood . Lemuel ate six pieces of bacon, his own and the others, ate all the fat off them, sucked the rinds and threw them back in the soup .

 "I thought they were over, perhaps it’s a new one, lepping fresh" "The comma will come where I’ll drown for good, then the silence, how it drags on"




Iteration 8


 Willem de Klerk's novel is about a man on crutches who tries to catch up with a mangy dog . Samuel Beckett set out on a quest to walk from Ballyba to Dublin . Author says he knew he could catch the man, just had to want to .

 Lemuel ate six pieces of bacon, his own and the others, ate all the fat off them, sucked the rinds and threw them back in the soup . Photographer Macmann tore up this photograph and threw the bits in the air .




Iteration 9


 Photographer Macmann tore up this photograph and threw the bits in the air . Willem de Klerk's novel is about a man on crutches who tries to catch up with a dog . Samuel Beckett set out on a quest to walk from Ballyba to Dublin .
