Iteration 0


William Booth was tried on Friday, July 31, 1812, for forging a 1l. note, purporting to be a promissory note.

Birmingham's constables obtained a warrant for the arrest of a prisoner. A party of constables and dragoons went to the prisoner's house. Only way to get into that chamber was through a trap door.

A prisoner was captured by an officer, who asked him to let him in. The prisoner told the officer that he was dropping notes into the fire.

The prisoner by this indictment was charged with forging a Bank of England note for the sum of 1l.  material necessary for fabricating bank paper, upon a beam at some height.

Dorothy Ingeley said she saw some gentlemen and soldiers at the Boar's Head public-house, at Perry Barr, and that somebody said they were prisoners.

There were two windows in the chamber over the parlour, one of which looked into the garden and the other into the fold-yard. On the right hand the staircase communicated with the rooms over the kitchen. All those on the left hand were blocked up.

A trap door was cut through the cieling about the middle of the room. There were no other means to get into the chamber but by a moveable ladder.

Mr. Clay, and Gideon Taylor, went in. They looked about for some time, and observing a beam which went over the door and extended from one side to the other. The note now produced is the same that Chillingworth brought out of the chimney.

Witness, Dale, and George Redfearn, were left in possession of the house. Joseph Chillingworth assisted in searching prisoner's house on the 16th of March last.

John Ingeley knows the prisoner, has been employed by him ever since last Christmas. Chillingworth brought several pieces of paper out of the parlour chimney. Witness, who has had them ever since in his possession.

Mr. Joseph Chirm is headborough of Birmingham. He was present at the search of Booth's house on the 16th of March. He did not give any information of what he had done with the things he had planted.

Mr. Chirm said that Jolin Ingeley was in and about the house from Monday to Friday, but he cannot say whether he was detained or not.

Mr. William Bridges is paper maker to the Bank of England. He believes he marked those blanks, had seen them before. Mr. Edward Baker, is one of the constables of Birmingham, was at Booth's.

Mr Alley admitted the contents of the trunk might be produced, but they had gone farther, that all those notes were forged. The notes found in the trunk were shewn in different parcels to Mr. Glover, who stated that the 130 (first parcel shewn) were all forged.

No witnesses were called on behalf of the prisoner, nor did he say any thing in his defence. Mr. Kaye referred Mr. Clifford to the indictment. Sir S. Le Blanc said, "Well then, that objection must fail"

William Booth and George Scot were tried, upon an indictment against the statute of the 13th of his present Majesty. Jury almost immediately returned a verdict of Guilty.

Mr. Charles Clay proved his being present when Taylor found those articles, and their being delivered to him. Mr. Joseph Chillingworth proved his going to assist in search at Booth's. Gideon Taylor proved, as before, his finding the frame, mould, and other things.

Mr. William Brewer, the paper mould maker to the Bank, proved that the mould now produced, would make paper with the words BANK of ENGLAND visible. Samuel Hall (a boy) lived with Booth as a servant, he went to Booth about a week after Christmas. Booth threatened to have him taken before a justice of peace.

William Booth and Elizabeth Chidlow were tried for using plates for making promissory notes in imitation of Bank of England notes.

Mr. Harper, engraver to the Bank of England, proved the blank Bank bills produced to be forgeries. Mr. Chirm proved the manner of getting into the house, &c, as in former trials, and that he saw a rolling press similar to that in Court.

Bank tokens were in the garret, these are put on the pieces when they are put in the press. A large bench of vices, a large lathe for turning to edge or burnish, a quantity of wood chocks, used to knock the coin out of the coin.

Booth told witness to take the dies they had been using, and plant them. They were covered over with soft pitch and grease to prevent their rusting.

Witness and Yates worked the fly [the large press] —Booth put in and took out. They worked from about four in the morning until about eight, nearly all day. Mr. Linwood again proved being at Booth's house, and again enumerated the several articles found in the garret.

His Lordship said prosecutors must elect elect whether they would take the Tuesday or the Saturday as the day on which the offence was committed.

"You appear to have been the master and general superintendant of all those employed and of all that was going on in the house in which you resided," he wrote.
Iteration 1


William Booth was tried on Friday, July 31, 1812, for forging a 1l. note, purporting to be a promissory note.

Dorothy Ingeley said she saw some gentlemen and soldiers at the Boar's Head public-house, at Perry Barr, and that somebody said they were prisoners.

John Ingeley knows the prisoner, has been employed by him ever since last Christmas. Witness, Dale, and George Redfearn were left in possession of the house.

Mr Alley admitted the contents of the trunk might be produced, but they had gone farther, that all those notes were forged. The notes found in the trunk were shewn in different parcels to Mr. Glover.

Mr. Charles Clay proved his being present when Taylor found those articles, and their being delivered to him. Joseph Chillingworth proved his going to assist in search at Booth's. Samuel Hall (a boy) lived with Booth as a servant, he went to Booth about a week after Christmas. Booth threatened to have him taken before a justice of peace.

Booth told witness to take the dies they had been using, and plant them. They were covered over with soft pitch and grease to prevent their rusting. Bank tokens were in the garret, these are put on the pieces when they are put in the press.
