



Iteration 0


 Metamorphosis by Franz Kafka is published by David Wyllie and published by Franz Franz Kafka .

 It was half past six and the hands were quietly moving forwards . The collection of samples was still not packed, and he did not feel particularly fresh and fresh . Found where the itch was, and saw that it was covered with lots of little white spots .

 Gregor was shocked when he heard his own voice answering, it could hardly be recognised as the voice he had had before . The office assistant was the boss’s man, spineless, and with no understanding .

 Gregor had no thought of opening the door, and instead congratulated himself for his cautious habit, acquired from his travelling, of locking all doors at night . Gregor did not have the slightest doubt that the change in his voice was nothing more than the first sign of a serious cold .

 Gregor told himself that it was not possible for him to stay in bed . But when he had at last got his head out of the bed it occurred to him that if he let himself fall it would be a miracle if he survived .

 Gregor swang himself out of the bed with all his force . There was a loud thump, but it wasn't really a loud noise . Two strong people would have been more than enough to pull him from the bed .

 Gregor Samsa was told by his father that the chief clerk had come to ask him why he had missed the early train . The chief clerk called “Good morning, Mr. Samsa’

 Gregor was still there and had not the slightest intention of abandoning his family . Chief clerk now raised his voice, “Mr. Samsa’s barricade himself in your room, give us no more than yes or no for an answer,” he called to him .

 Gregor wanted to open the door, really did want to let them see him and to speak with the chief clerk . He was curious to learn what they would say when they caught sight of him . If they were shocked then it would no longer be Gregor’s responsibility and he could rest .

 Gregor slowly pushed his way over to the door with the chair and pushed himself upright using the adhesive on the tips of his legs . He rested there a little while to recover from the effort involved and then set himself to the task of turning the key in the lock with his mouth .

 Gregor bit on the key with all his strength, paying no attention to the pain he was causing himself . Gregor heard the chief clerk exclaim a loud ‘Oh!’ which sounded like the soughing of the wind . As the key turned round he turned around the lock with it, only holding himself upright with his mouth .

 Gregor's father would stretch out his breakfast for several hours as he sat reading a number of different newspapers . It's quite possible for someone to be temporarily unable to work, but that's just the right time to remember what's been achieved in the past .

 Chief clerk turned away as soon as Gregor started to speak, and only stared back at him over his trembling shoulders . Chief clerk was a lover of women, surely she could persuade him . Gregor realised that it was out of the question to let the chief clerk go away in this mood if his position in the firm was not to be put

 Gregor fell immediately over and, with a little scream as he sought something to hold onto, landed on his numerous little legs . His mother was not far away in front of him and seemed engrossed in herself . But then she suddenly jumped up with her arms outstretched and her fingers spread shouting: “Help, for pity’

 Gregor's father seized the stick in his right hand and used it to drive Gregor back into his room . Gregor realised that he had no choice as he saw, to his disgust, that he was quite incapable of going backwards in his chair .

 Gregor pushed himself into the doorway without regard for what might happen . One flank scraped on the white door and was painfully injured . The whole of his left side seemed like one, painfully stretched scar .

 Gregor could see that the gas had been lit in the living room . His father would normally be sat with his evening paper, reading it out in a loud voice . Gregor felt pride that he was able to provide a life like that for his sister and parents .

 Gregor passed in a light sleep, although he frequently woke from it in alarm because of his hunger . For some reason, the tall, empty room where he was forced to remain made him feel uneasy . Gregor's sister opened the door from the front room and looked anxiously in .

 Gregor's injuries must have completely healed as he found no difficulty in moving . This amazed him, as more than a month earlier he had cut his finger slightly with a knife . “Am I less sensitive than I used to be, then?”, he thought .

 Gregor watched with bulging eyes as his sister unselfconsciously took a broom and swept up the left-overs . For two whole days, all the talk at every mealtime was about what they should do now .

 Gregor converted his success at work straight into cash that he could lay on the table at home . Gregor’s sister also had to help his mother with the cooking .

 Gregor only remained close to his sister now . Unlike him, she was very fond of music and a gifted and expressive violinist . It was his secret plan to send her to the conservatory next year .

 Gregor's father was healthy but old, and lacking in self confidence . During the five years that he had not been working, he had put on a lot of weight and become very slow and clumsy . His elderly mother suffered from asthma and it was a strain for her just to move about the home . Gregor used to push a chair to

 Gregor hid himself under the couch and waited for his sister to come back . She did not come in, she went straight back and closed the door behind her . He spent four hours carrying the bedsheet over to the couch on his back .

 Gregor wanted to avoid being seen at the window during the day so he avoided being seen by his parents . To entertain himself, he got into the habit of crawling up and down the walls and ceiling . Gregor even thought he glimpsed a look of gratitude one time .

 Gregor’s sister noticed his new way of entertaining himself . She decided to make it as easy for him by removing furniture that got in his way . Gregor refrained, this time, from spying out from under the sheet .

 Gregor needed a lot of room to crawl about in, whereas the furniture was of no use to him at all . Grete had become used to the idea that she was Gregor’s spokesman to his parents about the things that concerned him .

 Gregor kept trying to assure himself that nothing unusual was happening, it was just a few pieces of furniture being moved after all . But he soon had to admit that the women going to and fro, their little calls to each other, the scraping of the furniture on the floor, all these things made him feel as if he were being assailed

 Gregor's attention was caught by the picture on the wall of the lady dressed in copious fur . He hurried up onto the picture and pressed himself against its glass . This picture at least, now totally covered by Gregor, would certainly be taken away .

 Gregor was shut out from his mother, who, because of him, might be near to death . Gregor fled to the door of his room and pressed himself against it so that his father, when he came in from the hall, could see straight away that Gregor had the best intentions . His father, though, was not in the

 Gregor used to be the same tired man who would receive him sitting in the armchair in his nightgown when he came back in the evenings . Gregor knew full well, right from the first day of his new life, that his father thought it necessary to always be extremely strict with him .

 Gregor froze in shock when an apple flew down and rolled in front of him . He wanted to drag himself away, as if he could remove the surprising pain by changing his position . No-one dared to remove the apple lodged in Gregor’s flesh, so it remained there as a visible reminder .

 Gregor’s father refused to take his uniform off even at home . Gregor had been reduced to the condition of an ancient invalid and it took him long, long minutes to crawl across his room .

 Gregor's mother and sister would try to persuade him to get up but he would just sink deeper into his chair . Only when the two women took him under the arms he would abruptly open his eyes and say: "What a life!" Several items of jewellery belonging to the family had been sold .

 Gregor’s father brought bank employees breakfast, his mother washed clothes for strangers, his sister ran back and forth behind her desk at the behest of the customers . They carried out everything that the world expects from poor people, but they just did not have the strength to do any more .

 Gregor’s sister was exhausted from going out to work, and looking after Gregor as she had done before was even more work for her . This elderly widow, with a robust bone structure that made her able to withstand the hardest of things in her long life, should not be neglected .

 One of the rooms in the flat had been rented out to three gentlemen . Gregor was taken by surprise by the charwoman who opened the door slightly every evening and morning and looked briefly in on him .

 Gregor's father and mother used to eat with him in the living room . The gentlemen bent over the dishes as if they wanted to test the food before eating it .

 Gregor’s parents had never rented a room out before and therefore showed an exaggerated courtesy towards the three gentlemen . His mother was offered a seat by one of the gentlemen and sat out of the way in a corner .

 Gregor crawled onto the immaculate floor of the living room . Gregor was determined to make his way forward to his sister and tug at her skirt .

 Gregor’s father seemed so obsessed with what he was doing that he forgot all the respect he owed to his tenants . He urged them and pressed them until the middle of the three gentlemen shouted like thunder and stamped his foot .

 Gregor's father staggered back to his seat, feeling his way with his hands, and fell into it . It looked as if he was stretching himself out for his usual evening nap but from the uncontrolled way his head kept nodding it could be seen that he was not sleeping at all .

 Gregor’s sister abandoned his mother as she pushed herself vigorously out of her chair . His pain-wracked condition meant that turning round required a great deal of effort . Gregor had no intention of frightening anyone, least of his sister .

 Gregor soon made the discovery that he could no longer move at all . Gregor could already hardly feel the decayed apple in his back or the inflamed area around it . He thought back of his family with emotion and love .

 Grete was fully dressed as if she had never been asleep . She said: 'Just look how thin he was. He didn’t eat anything for so long'

 Mr. Samsa appeared in uniform with his wife on one arm and his daughter on the other . Grete now and then pressed her face against her father’s arm . "Leave my home. Now!”, said Mr.Samsa .

 Mr. Samsa and Grete Samsa were writing a letter to a cleaner in the early hours of the morning . The cleaner stood in the doorway with a smile on her face as if she had some tremendous good news to report .

 Grete Samsa's parents were struck with the thought of how their daughter was blossoming into a well built and beautiful young lady . They agreed it would soon be time to find a good man for Grete .




Iteration 1


 Metamorphosis by Franz Kafka is published by David Wyllie and published by Franz Franz Kafka .

 Gregor was shocked when he heard his own voice answering . The office assistant was the boss’s man, spineless, and with no understanding . Gregor did not have the slightest doubt that the change in his voice was nothing more than the first sign of a serious cold .

 Gregor swang himself out of the bed with all his force . There was a loud thump, but it wasn't really a loud noise . Two strong people would have been more than enough to pull him from the bed .

 Gregor Samsa was told by his father that the chief clerk had come to ask him why he had missed the early train . Chief clerk now raised his voice, “Mr. Samsa’s barricade himself in your room, give us no more than yes or no for an answer,” he called .

 Gregor wanted to open the door, really did want to let them see him and to speak with the chief clerk . He was curious to learn what they would say when they caught sight of him . If they were shocked then it would no longer be Gregor’s responsibility and he could rest .

 Gregor bit on the key with all his strength, paying no attention to the pain he was causing himself . Gregor heard the chief clerk exclaim a loud ‘Oh!’ which sounded like the soughing of the wind . As the key turned round he turned around the lock with it, only holding himself upright with his mouth .

 Chief clerk turned away as soon as Gregor started to speak, and only stared back at him over his trembling shoulders . Chief clerk was a lover of women, surely she could persuade him . Gregor realised that it was out of the question to let the chief clerk go away in this mood if his position in the firm was not to be put

 Gregor pushed himself into the doorway without regard for what might happen . One flank scraped on the white door and was painfully injured . Gregor's father seized the stick in his right hand and used it to drive Gregor back into his room .

 Gregor could see that the gas had been lit in the living room . His father would normally be sat with his evening paper, reading it out in a loud voice . Gregor felt pride that he was able to provide a life like that for his sister and parents .

 Gregor's injuries must have completely healed as he found no difficulty in moving . This amazed him as more than a month earlier he had cut his finger slightly with a knife . “Am I less sensitive than I used to be, then?”, he thought .

 Gregor converted his success at work into cash that he could lay on the table at home . Gregor’s sister also had to help his mother with the cooking .

 Gregor's father was healthy but old, and lacking in self confidence . During the five years that he had not been working, he had put on a lot of weight and become slow and clumsy . Gregor hid himself under the couch and waited for his sister to come back .

 Gregor wanted to avoid being seen at the window during the day so he avoided being seen by his parents . To entertain himself, he got into the habit of crawling up and down the walls and ceiling . Gregor thought he glimpsed a look of gratitude one time .

 Gregor kept trying to assure himself that nothing unusual was happening, it was just a few pieces of furniture being moved after all . But he soon had to admit that the women going to and fro, their little calls to each other, the scraping of the furniture on the floor made him feel as if he were being assailed .

 Gregor was shut out from his mother, who, because of him, might be near to death . Gregor's attention was caught by the picture on the wall of the lady dressed in copious fur . He hurried up onto the picture and pressed himself against its glass .

 Gregor used to be the same tired man who would receive him sitting in the armchair in his nightgown when he came back in the evenings . Gregor knew full well, right from the first day of his new life, that his father thought it necessary to always be extremely strict with him .

 Gregor’s father refused to take his uniform off even at home . Several items of jewellery belonging to the family had been sold . Gregor had been reduced to the condition of an ancient invalid .

 Gregor’s father brought bank employees breakfast, his mother washed clothes for strangers, his sister ran back and forth behind her desk at the behest of the customers . They carried out everything that the world expects from poor people, but they just did not have the strength to do any more .

 Gregor's father and mother used to eat with him in the living room . Gregor was taken by surprise by the charwoman who opened the door slightly every evening and morning and looked briefly in on him .

 Gregor crawled onto the immaculate floor of the living room . His mother was offered a seat by one of the gentlemen and sat out of the way in a corner . Gregor was determined to make his way forward to his sister and tug at her skirt .

 Gregor’s father seemed so obsessed with what he was doing that he forgot all the respect he owed to his tenants . He urged them and pressed them until the middle of the three gentlemen shouted like thunder and stamped his foot .

 Gregor’s sister abandoned his mother as she pushed herself vigorously out of her chair . His pain-wracked condition meant that turning round required a great deal of effort .

 Mr Samsa appeared in uniform with his wife on one arm and his daughter on the other . Grete said: 'Just look how thin he was. He didn’t eat anything for so long'

 Grete Samsa's parents were struck with the thought of how their daughter was blossoming into a well built and beautiful young lady . They agreed it would soon be time to find a good man for Grete .




Iteration 2


 Metamorphosis by Franz Kafka is published by David Wyllie and published by Franz Franz Kafka . Gregor was shocked when he heard his own voice answering .

 Gregor Samsa was told by his father that the chief clerk had come to ask him why he had missed the early train . Chief clerk now raised his voice, “Mr. Samsa barricade himself in your room, give us no more than yes or no for an answer,” he called .

 Gregor bit on the key with all his strength, paying no attention to the pain he was causing himself . Gregor wanted to open the door, really did want to let them see him and to speak with the chief clerk . If they were shocked then it would no longer be Gregor’s responsibility .

 Chief clerk turned away as soon as Gregor started to speak, and only stared back at him over his trembling shoulders . Gregor realised that it was out of the question to let the chief clerk go away in this mood if his position in the firm was not to be put on the line .

 Gregor could see that the gas had been lit in the living room . His father would normally be sat with his evening paper, reading it out in a loud voice . He felt pride that he was able to provide a life like that for his sister and parents .

 Gregor converted his success at work into cash that he could lay on the table at home . Gregor’s sister also had to help his mother with the cooking .

 Gregor wanted to avoid being seen at the window during the day so he avoided being seen by his parents . He got into the habit of crawling up and down the walls and ceiling .

 Gregor used to be the same tired man who would receive him sitting in the armchair in his nightgown when he came back in the evenings . Gregor knew full well, right from the first day of his new life, that his father thought it necessary to always be extremely strict with him .

 Gregor’s father brought bank employees breakfast, his mother washed clothes for strangers, his sister ran back and forth behind her desk at the behest of the customers . They carried out everything that the world expects from poor people, but they just did not have the strength to do any more . Gregor's father refused to take his uniform off

 Gregor's father and mother used to eat with him in the living room . Gregor was taken by surprise by the charwoman who opened the door slightly every evening and morning and looked briefly in on him .

 Gregor’s father seemed so obsessed with what he was doing that he forgot respect he owed to his tenants . His pain-wracked condition meant that turning round required a great deal of effort .

 Grete Samsa's parents were struck with the thought of how their daughter was blossoming into a well built and beautiful young lady . They agreed it would soon be time to find a good man for Grete .




Iteration 3


 Metamorphosis by Franz Kafka is published by David Wyllie and published by Franz Franz Kafka . Gregor Samsa was shocked when he heard his own voice answering .

 Chief clerk turned away as soon as Gregor started to speak, and only stared back at him over his trembling shoulders . Gregor wanted to open the door, really did want to let them see him and to speak with the chief clerk . If they were shocked then it would no longer be Gregor’s responsibility .

 Gregor converted his success at work into cash that he could lay on the table at home . His sister also had to help his mother with the cooking .

 Gregor used to be the same tired man who would receive him sitting in the armchair in his nightgown when he came back in the evenings . Gregor wanted to avoid being seen at the window during the day so he avoided being seen by his parents .

 Gregor’s father brought bank employees breakfast, his mother washed clothes for strangers, his sister ran back and forth behind her desk at the behest of the customers . They carried out everything that the world expects from poor people, but they just did not have the strength to do any more .

 Grete Samsa's parents were struck with the thought of how their daughter was blossoming into a well built and beautiful young lady . Gregor's father seemed so obsessed with what he was doing that he forgot respect he owed to his tenants .




Iteration 4


 Metamorphosis by Franz Kafka is published by David Wyllie and published by Franz Franz Kafka . Gregor Samsa was shocked when he heard his own voice answering .

 Gregor converted his success at work into cash that he could lay on the table at home . His sister also had to help his mother with the cooking . Gregor wanted to avoid being seen at the window during the day .

 Grete Samsa's parents were struck with the thought of how their daughter was blossoming into a well built and beautiful young lady . Gregor’s father brought bank employees breakfast, his mother washed clothes for strangers, his sister ran back and forth behind her desk at the behest of the customers .




Iteration 5


 Metamorphosis by Franz Kafka is published by David Wyllie and published by Franz Franz Kafka . Gregor Samsa was shocked when he heard his own voice answering .

 Grete Samsa's parents were struck with the thought of how their daughter was blossoming into a well built and beautiful young lady . Gregor’s father brought bank employees breakfast, his mother washed clothes for strangers, his sister ran back and forth behind her desk at the behest of the customers .




Iteration 6


 Metamorphosis by Franz Kafka is published by David Wyllie and published by Franz Franz Kafka . Gregor Samsa was shocked when he heard his own voice answering .
