Iteration 0


Gregor's room was a proper human room although a little too small. A collection of textile samples lay spread out on the table. above it there hung a picture of Gregor.

Gregor was shocked when he heard his own voice answering, it could hardly be recognised as the voice he had had before. The next train went at seven; if he were to catch that he would have to rush like mad.

“Before it strikes quarter past seven I’ll definitely have to have got properly out of bed,” he said. “By then somebody will have come round to help.”

Gregor Samsa's idea of relaxation is working with his fretsaw. He sits with us in the kitchen and just reads the paper or train timetables.

Gregor wanted to open the door, really did want to let them see him and to speak with the chief clerk. ‘It’s shocking, what can suddenly happen to a person!'

Gregor's father looked hostile, and clenched his fists as if wanting to knock Gregor back into his room. Gregor bit on the key with all his strength, paying no attention to the pain he was causing.

Gregor realised that it was out of the question to let the chief clerk go away in this mood if his position in the firm was not to be put into extreme danger. ‘We travellers spend almost the whole year away from the office, so that we can very easily fall victim to gossip and chance and groundless complaints,' he said.

If Gregor had only been allowed to turn round he would have been back in his room straight away, but he was afraid that if he took the time to do so he would be seen. The flight of the chief clerk seemed, unfortunately, to put Gregor’s father into a panic as well. Until then he had been relatively self controlled, but now he was in a panic.

Gregor felt pride that he was able to provide a life like that in such a nice home for his sister and parents. He was so pleased he almost laughed, as he was even hungrier than he had been before.

Gregor's injuries must already have completely healed as he found no difficulty in moving. This amazed him, as more than a month earlier he had cut his finger slightly. Gregor was extremely curious as to what she would bring in its place.

Gregor’s sister also had to help his mother with the cooking. Gregor often heard how one of them would unsuccessfully urge another to eat.

Gregor used to push a chair to the window and lean on it to stare out of it. He had used to feel a great sense of freedom from doing this. Gregor's father was healthy but old, and lacking in self confidence.

Gregor wanted to avoid being seen at the window during the day. To entertain himself, he got into the habit of crawling up and down the walls and ceiling.

Grete had become used to the idea that she was Gregor’s spokesman to his parents about the things that concerned him. She noticed that Gregor needed to be more independent.

Grete ran into the other room to fetch some kind of smelling salts to bring her mother out of her faint. Gregor wanted to help too, although he stuck to the picture on the wall.

Gregor used to be the same tired man who would receive him sitting in the armchair in his nightgown. He was amazed at the enormous size of the soles of his boots. He knew full well, right from the first day of his new life, that his life had changed.

Gregor’s father refused to take his uniform off even at home. Gregor had been reduced to the condition of an ancient invalid.

Gregor’s father brought bank employees their breakfast, his mother sacrificed herself by washing clothes for strangers. His sister ran back and forth behind her desk at the bank.

One of the rooms in the flat had been rented out to three gentlemen. They were painfully insistent on things’ being tidy. Unnecessary clutter was something they didn't like.

Gregor's parents had never rented a room out before and therefore showed an exaggerated courtesy towards the three gentlemen. The three gentlemen had already finished their meal.

Gregor’s father seemed so obsessed with what he was doing that he forgot all the respect he owed to his tenants. The violin went silent, the middle of the three gentlemen first smiled at his two friends, shaking his head, and then looked back at Gregor.

Gregor had no intention of frightening anyone, least of all his sister. All he had done was begin to turn round so that he could go back into his room. His sister abandoned his mother as she pushed herself vigorously out of her chair.

Grete, who had not taken her eyes from the corpse, said: “Just look how thin he was. He didn’t eat anything for so long”

Mr. and Mrs. Samsa were writing letters when the cleaner arrived. The cleaner had a smile on her face as if she had some tremendous good news to report.

This particular work is one of the few individual works protected by copyright law in the United States. Nearly all the individual works in the collection are in the public domain in the U.S.

Royalty payments must be paid within 60 days following each date on which you prepare (or are legally required to prepare) your periodic tax returns. You may convert to and distribute this work in any binary, compressed, marked up, nonproprietary or proprietary form.

Donations to the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation are tax deductible to the full extent permitted by U.S. federal laws and your state’s laws. You agree to indemnify and hold the. Foundation, the trademark owner, any agent or employee of the Foundation, and. anyone providing copies of Project Gutenberg™ electronic books.
Iteration 1


Gregor was shocked when he heard his own voice answering, it could hardly be recognised as the voice he had had before. The next train went at seven; if he were to catch that he would have to rush like mad.

Gregor's father looked hostile, and clenched his fists as if wanting to knock Gregor back into his room. Gregor bit on the key with all his strength, paying no attention to the pain he was causing.

Gregor's injuries must already have completely healed as he found no difficulty in moving. This amazed him, as more than a month earlier he had cut his finger slightly. Gregor was extremely curious as to what she would bring in its place.

Grete had become used to the idea that she was Gregor’s spokesman to his parents about the things that concerned him. She noticed that Gregor needed to be more independent.

Gregor’s father refused to take his uniform off even at home. His mother sacrificed herself by washing clothes for strangers. His sister ran back and forth behind her desk at the bank.

Gregor had no intention of frightening anyone, least of all his sister. His sister abandoned his mother as she pushed herself vigorously out of her chair. Gregor’s father seemed so obsessed with what he was doing that he forgot all the respect he owed to his tenants.

This work is one of the few individual works protected by copyright law in the United States. Nearly all the individual works in the collection are in the public domain in the U.S. You may convert to and distribute this work in any binary, compressed, marked up, nonproprietary or proprietary form.
Iteration 2


Gregor's father looked as if he wanted to knock Gregor back into his room. The next train went at seven.

Gregor’s father refused to take his uniform off even at home. His mother sacrificed herself by washing clothes for strangers. His sister abandoned his mother as she pushed herself vigorously out of her chair.
Iteration 3


Gregor’s father refused to take his uniform off even at home. His mother sacrificed herself by washing clothes for strangers. The next train went at seven.
