Summarizing: The Gospel in Brief Leo Tolstoy Exported from Wikisource on December 31, 2023 The source document of this text is not known. Please see this document's talk page for details for verification. "Source" means a location at which other users can find a copy of this work. Ideally this will be a scanned copy of the original that can be uploaded to Wikimedia Commons and proofread. If not, it is preferably a URL; if one is not available, please explain on the talk page. Preface Prologue The Son of God The Service of God The Source of Life The Kingdom of God The True life The False Life I and the Father are One Life is not Temporal Temptations The Struggle with Temptation The Farewell Discourse The Victory of Spirit over Matter A Summary of the Chapters This work is a translation and has a separate copyright status to the applicable copyright protections of the original content. Original: This work was published before January 1, 1928, and is in the public domain worldwide because the author died at least 100 years ago. Translation: This work is in the public domain in the United States because it was published before January 1, 1928. * * * The longest-living author of this work died in 1939, so this work is in the public domain in countries and areas where the copyright term is the author's life plus 83 years or

Summary: 
" This work is a translation and has a separate copyright status to the applicable copyright protections of the original content . The longest-living author of this work died in 1939 . The Gospel in Brief is in the public domain worldwide because the author died 100 years ago ." better be said as: A Brief Note on the Genesis Text [ edit ]

The following brief



Summarizing: less. This work may be in the public domain in countries and areas with longer native copyright terms that apply the rule of the shorter term to foreign works. THIS short exposition of the Gospel is a summary of a large work which exists in manuscript and cannot be published in Russia. That work consists of four parts: An account (Confession) of the course of my own life and of the thoughts which led me to the conviction that the Christian teaching contains the truth. An examination of the Christian teaching: first according to its interpretation by the Orthodox Russo-Greek Church, then according to its interpretation by the Church in general—by the Apostles, the Councils, the so-called Fathers of the Church—and an exposure of what is false in those interpretations. An examination of Christian teaching not according to those interpretations but solely according to what has come down to us of Christ's teaching, as ascribed to him in the Gospels. An exposition of the real meaning of Christ's teaching, the reasons why it has been perverted, and the consequences to which it should lead. From the third of those parts the present account has been compiled. The harmonization of the four Gospels has been in accord with the sense of the