Iteration 0


 The Project Gutenberg eBook of Metamorphosis is for the use of anyone anywhere in the United States and most other parts of the world at no cost and with almost no cost .

 Gregor was shocked when he heard his own voice answering, it could hardly be recognised as the voice he had had before . The next train went at seven; if he were to catch that he would have to rush like mad and the collection of samples was still not packed .

 Gregor told himself once more that it was not possible for him to stay in bed and that the most sensible thing to do would be to get free of it . Gregor lay there quietly a while longer, breathing lightly as if he perhaps expected the total stillness to bring things back to their natural state .

 Gregor Samsa's idea of relaxation is working with his fretsaw . He sits with us in the kitchen and just reads the paper or studies train timetables . Gregor tried to imagine whether something of the sort that had happened to him today could ever happen to the chief clerk .

 Gregor tried to climb up on the smooth chest of drawers he just slid down again . Gregor was quite alright last night, my parents know about it, perhaps better than me . I had a small symptom of it last night already . Please, don't don't .

 Gregor bit on the key with all his strength, paying no attention to the pain he was causing himself . Gregor heard the chief clerk exclaim a loud ‘Oh!’ which sounded like the soughing of the wind .

 Gregor realised that it was out of the question to let the chief clerk go away in this mood . Chief clerk turned away as soon as Gregor started to speak, and, with protruding lips, only stared back at him over his trembling shoulders as he left .

 The flight of the chief clerk seemed, unfortunately, to put Gregor’s father into a panic as well . Until then he had been relatively self controlled, until then . Gregor was afraid that if he took the time to do so, he would have been back in his room straight away .

 Gregor felt a great pride that he was able to provide a life like that in such a nice home for his sister and parents . Gregor could see that the gas had been lit in the living room .

 Gregor's injuries must already have completely healed as he found no difficulty in moving . Gregor was extremely curious as to what she would bring in its place, imagining the wildest possibilities, but he never could have guessed what his sister would do .

 Gregor heard how he opened the complicated lock and then closed it again after he had taken the item he wanted . Gregor had thought that nothing at all remained from his collection .

 Gregor's father was healthy but old, and lacking self confidence . During the five years that he had not been working, he had put on a lot of weight . Gregor used to feel a great sense of freedom from doing this, but doing it now was obviously something more remembered than experienced .

 Gregor thought he glimpsed a look of gratitude one time when he carefully looked out from under the sheet to see how his sister liked the new arrangement . Gregor wanted to avoid being seen at the window during the day .

 Gregor realised that the lack of direct human communication, along with the monotonous life led by the family during these two months, must have made him confused . His sister, Grete, had become used to the idea that she was Gregor’s spokesman to his parents .

 Gregor changed direction four times not knowing what he should save first . His attention was suddenly caught by the picture on the wall of the lady dressed in copious fur .

 The same tired man as used to be laying there entombed in his bed when Gregor came back from his business trips . Gregor was amazed at the enormous size of the soles of his boots .

 Gregor’s father refused to take his uniform off even at home . Gregor had been reduced to the condition of an ancient invalid and it took him long, long minutes to crawl across his room .

 Gregor’s father brought bank employees breakfast, his mother washed clothes for strangers, his sister ran back and forth behind her desk at the behest of the customers . Gregor's sister no longer thought about how she could please him but would hurriedly push some food or other into his room with her foot before she rushed to her room .

 One of the rooms in the flat had been rented out to three gentlemen . Gregor was taken totally by surprise by the charwoman who opened the door slightly every evening and morning and looked briefly in on him .

 Gregor’s father soon appeared with the music stand, his mother and his sister with the violin . Gregor could not remember having heard having heard the violin being played, but this evening it began to be heard from the kitchen .

 The violin went silent, the middle of the three gentlemen first smiled at his two friends, shaking his head, and then looked back at Gregor . Gregor’s father seemed so obsessed with what he was doing that he forgot all the respect he owed to his tenants .

 Gregor had no intention of frightening anyone, least of all his sister . All he had done was begin to turn round so that he could go back into his room . If it were Gregor he would have seen long ago that it’s not possible for human beings to live with an animal like that .

 Mr. Samsa sat upright there in their marriage bed and had to get over the shock caused by the cleaner before they could grasp what she was saying . Grete, who had not taken her eyes from the corpse, said: “Just look how thin he was. He didn’t eat anything for so long."

 Mr. Samsa and Grete Samsa were writing a letter to a cleaner in the early hours of the morning . The cleaner stood in the doorway with a smile .

 This particular work is one of the few individual works protected by copyright law in the United States . Nearly all the individual works in the collection are in the public domain .

 Royalty payments must be paid within 60 days following each date on which you prepare (or are legally required to prepare) your periodic tax returns . You may convert to and distribute this work in any binary, compressed, marked up, nonproprietary or proprietary form, including any word processing or hypertext form .

 The Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation is a non-profit 501(c)(3) educational corporation . Contributions to the Foundation are tax deductible to the full extent permitted by the Foundation .
Iteration 1


 The Project Gutenberg eBook of Metamorphosis is for the use of anyone anywhere in the United States and most other parts of the world at no cost and with almost no cost .

 Gregor bit on the key with all his strength, paying no attention to the pain he was causing himself . Gregor heard the chief clerk exclaim a loud ‘Oh!’ which sounded like the soughing of the wind .

 Gregor's injuries must already have completely healed as he found no difficulty in moving . Gregor was extremely curious as to what she would bring in its place, imagining the wildest possibilities, but he never could have guessed what his sister would do .

 Gregor thought he glimpsed a look of gratitude one time when he carefully looked out from under the sheet to see how his sister liked the new arrangement . Gregor wanted to avoid being seen at the window during the day .

 Gregor had been reduced to the condition of an ancient invalid and it took him long, long minutes to crawl across his room . Gregor’s father brought bank employees breakfast, his mother washed clothes for strangers, his sister ran back and forth behind her desk at the behest of the customers . His sister no longer thought about how she could please him but would hurriedly push food or other into his room with her foot before she rushed to her room .

 Gregor’s father seemed so obsessed with what he was doing that he forgot all the respect he owed to his tenants . Gregor had no intention of frightening anyone, least of all his sister .

 This particular work is one of the few individual works protected by copyright law in the United States . Nearly all the individual works in the collection are in the public domain . Royalty payments must be paid within 60 days following each date on which you prepare (or are legally required to prepare) your periodic tax returns .
Iteration 2


 The Project Gutenberg eBook of Metamorphosis is for the use of anyone anywhere in the United States and most other parts of the world at no cost and with almost no cost . Gregor bit on the key with all his strength, paying no attention to the pain he was causing himself .

 Gregor had been reduced to the condition of an ancient invalid and it took him long, long minutes to crawl across his room . Gregor’s father brought bank employees breakfast, his mother washed clothes for strangers, his sister ran back and forth behind her desk at the behest of the customers . His sister no longer thought about how she could please him but would hurriedly push food or other into his room with her foot .
Iteration 3


 The Project Gutenberg eBook of Metamorphosis is for the use of anyone anywhere in the United States and most other parts of the world at no cost and with almost no cost . Gregor bit on the key with all his strength, paying no attention to the pain he was causing himself .
