
This short exposition of the Gospel is a summary of a large work which exists in manuscript and cannot be published in Russia. This work is in the public domain worldwide because the author died at least 100 years ago.

In the present rendering the following are omitted: the conception and birth of John the Baptist. The Lord's Prayer is nothing but a very concise expression of the whole teaching of Jesus. In the full exposition, in the third part, everything in the Gospels is included.

"I was led to Christianity neither by theological nor historical investigations but by this" "I began to seek Christianity in the Christian teaching that guides such men's lives"

According to this false interpretation Christ's teaching is only one link in a chain of revelations. "The interpretation of the teaching of one person (and one looked upon as God) should not occasion discord"

The teaching of Christ is not separated on the one side from an artificial and quite unjustifiable amalgamation with the Old Testament. Churchmen acknowledging the last revelation explaining all previous ones, should say so.

The teaching of Christ as set forth in this book is quite a different teaching from that which he professes. The essential thing is to know in all its purity what constituted that teaching which was so lofty and so precious to men.

Only those who understood the enlightenment were able to become like him because they believed in his reality. Those who believed that life lies in the xiii. understanding became no more. LEO TOLSTÓY.

Jesus remained in the desert forty days and forty nights without food or drink. The voice of the flesh said to him: If you were the son of Almighty God you would have eaten. Jesus said to himself: I can disregard the flesh, but I may not throw it off.

Jesus asked the Orthodox professors of the law: Do you think it is wrong to help a man on Saturday? And they did not know what to answer.

Jesus said he would destroy the temple and build a new one in three days. Jews objected and said that our way of serving God is wrong. Jesus said: "Do you not understand that what is external, bodily, cannot defile a man?"

If he were really a prophet he would know what sort of woman it is that is washing his feet. He would know that she is a wrong-doer. God is a spirit; He cannot be measured and cannot be proved. The Father, loving his son, has entrusted everything to him.

The law and the prophets were necessary till John came, but now he has announced that the Kingdom of God is on earth. He said: When you went to John in the wilderness to be baptized, what did you go to see? Orthodox teachers of the law went to see John too.

The Kingdom of God will come for all men at a certain time and in a certain place. The Father of the spirit in man is the Father of those only who preserve it. God does not force men but, like a sower, sows the spirit.

Once many people came to Jesus to hear his teaching and he went up on a hill and sat down. And he began to teach the people what the Father's will was. And the man who receives the teaching readily and gladly, but has no root and only accepts it for a time.

In the former law it was said that if a man killed another he must give a life for a life. Do not think that love of a woman is good, do not desire women, but live with her with whom you have become united, and do not leave her.

If you wish to pray, go where no one will see you, and pray to the Father of your spirit. When you pray, do not wag your tongue.

All who are concerned for the happiness of the body have put on a yoke not made for them. The teaching of Jesus was quite different from that of the Orthodox professors of the law.

I teach you in the name of the common Father of all men. As the Father gives life to the dead so the son give life to him who desires it. The Father has not condemned men to death, but has given them power.

Those who do not fulfil the will and do not serve life are bereft of what life they had, and are destroyed. The return of the master and his call for an account is the destruction of the bodily life and the decision of the people's fate.

Jesus chose seventy men from among those near him, and sent them to places he himself wished to go to. The Jews did not at all understand what he said, and began to dispute as to how it was possible to give one's body.

To obtain true life, man must on earth resign the false life of the flesh and live by the spirit. If men were not sons of one spirit it would not be possible to overcome evil.

We can reason and guess what is coming. But if we do not bear fruit we too shall perish. To understand this no wisdom is necessary; everyone can see it.

God does not look at the exterior, but at the heart. That which is esteemed among men is despicable in God's sight. We should give away the transitory and false riches of this life in order to obtain the life of God.

A camel can pass through the eye of a needle sooner than he who trusts in riches fulfil the will of the Father. Zacchaeus was saying to Jesus: See, Master, what I will do: I will give half my property to the poor.

Jesus said: My teaching is not my own, but His that sent me. In my teaching there can be no contradictions, but your written Mosaic law is full of them. Jesus said: You have a special time and place in which to serve God.

To know truth is to be a son and not a slave. If you err, you will be slaves and will die. But if you are in the truth you will have life.

Jesus saw a man who had no understanding from the time of his birth. He explained to the ignorant man that he was a son of God in the spirit.

Jesus said: "No one will take my life from me, but I myself freely give it up" The Jews were offended at this and took up stones to kill him.

John and James asked Jesus to make them chiefs among the pupils. When those who had been hired first saw that those hired last received a penny each, they thought they would receive more, but they also were paid a penny.

People do not like even a reminder of the spirit that lives in them and shows them that it is eternal. A master planted a garden, cultivated it, and did everything to make it yield as much fruit as possible. He sent labourers into the garden to work there.

Mankind is divided according to the way men serve the son of man. Ten maidens went with lamps to meet a bridegroom. Five of them were wise and five were foolish.

The king called the vassal and said to him: Wretched man, I forgave you all your debt because you begged me to. If a man has injured you do not forget that he is a son of the same Father and is your brother.

The temptation against the fifth commandment is for men to consider it their duty to do good to their fellow-countrymen only. Beware of the temptation to break the fourth commandment.

Beware of the self-styled 'Orthodox', for in them is the chief stumbling-block. Those who are dead from among men are alive to God.

Six days before the Passover Jesus said to his pupils: Let us go to Jerusalem. But the pupils said to him: Do not go. Orthodox chief priests and scholars long consulted together and could not decide what to do with him.

Among those who heard these words of Jesus were many powerful and wealthy people who believed his teaching but were afraid to acknowledge it to the chief priests. From this time that which rules this world shall be destroyed. When the son of man is exalted above the earthly life he will unite all in one.

Jesus told his pupils that to-night he would be taken and they would all abandon him and scatter. Peter said he would never deny him, and all the other pupils agreed. Jesus said: I will soak a bit of bread and will give it to him and he to whom I give it is my betrayer. And he gave the bread to him.

Jesus said: 'I shall die and worldly men will not see me, but you will see me because my teaching lives and you will live by it'

When I, as the spirit of truth, shall be in you, you will not always know that I am there. You will grieve, but your sorrow will be short-lived. They will cast you out; they will not kill you. If I do not die thespirit of truth will not come to you, but if I die it will abide in you.

Jesus was taken to the palace of Annas, the father-in-law of Caiaphas. Jesus said: Come now, let us go: he who will betray me is near. Hardly had he said this before Judas, one of the twelve pupils of Jesus.

Pilate listened to what they had to say, and then ordered Jesus to be brought to him to the judgement seat. The high priest cried out: you blasphemer! Now we need no more evidence.

When Pilate heard these words he understood that he could not refuse to execute Jesus. Pilate called up Jesus and asked him: Who are you and where are you from? But Jesus did not answer him.

The Sabbath is a human institution. Like all external forms of religion the keeping of the Sabbath involves a delusion. You are forbidden to do anything on the Sabbath, but you can do anything else.

The spirit alone gives life to men, and it depends on them to preserve it or lose it. For the spirit, evil does not exist. Evil is an illusion.

The teaching of Jesus surprised and attracted the people by the fact that it recognized all men as free. One need not pray to God in any special place, but should do good to men unceasing. The true food of man is to fulfil the will of the Father-spirit.

Jesus says that he who believes in the life of the spirit can fear nothing. The Orthodox said to Jesus that his teaching, even if it overcame evil, was itself an evil. To this Jesus said: Evil cannot overcome evil.

A man cannot serve property and God. What is honourable among men is an abomination before God. A rich man is guilty in that he eats much and luxuries. To fulfil the Father's will it is necessary to sacrifice the bodily life.

He who follows my teaching will receive true life. There can be no proofs of the truth of my teaching. It is the light itself, and as light cannot be proved, it cannot be disproved.

In the kingdom of heaven there is neither greater nor less, all are equal. The Jews still did not understand and still wanted proofs of whether or not Jesus was the Christ. They said: Do not torment us, but tell us plainly, are you Jesus?

To understand the teaching of Jesus one must understand the life of children and be like them. Children live in the Father's will, not infringing the five commandments. To live the true life we must never forget the past or the future.

Men are tempted to infringe the fourth commandment by thinking that they can reform others by themselves. To avoid falling into this temptation we must not yield to anger and revenge.

Jesus was troubled when certain heathen wished to discuss his teaching. He knew that his talk with the heathen would make clear his rejection of the whole Jewish law.

Jesus said he fed him and given him drink and washed his feet. He said: I have done this to show you how to behave to those who harm you.

Love is to sacrifice the bodily life for the sake of another: there is no other definition. The world does not understand my teaching and therefore will persecute you. Like all men you will not always feel within you the strength of the Lord.

The Jews had not the right to put anyone to death: to do this permission was needed from the Roman governor. Jesus had not yielded to the temptation to fight when the pupils had two knives ready for his defence.

Kamenicek Beleg Tâl JeepdaySock Penubag Masur Steinsplitter Rocket000 Dsmurat Zscout370. This e-book comes from the online library Wikisource. You are free to use our e-books for any purpose.

This short exposition of the Gospel is a summary of a large work which exists in manuscript and cannot be published in Russia. The Lord's Prayer is nothing but a very concise expression of the whole teaching of Jesus. In the full exposition, in the third part, everything in the Gospels is included.

The teaching of Christ is not separated on the one side from an artificial and quite unjustifiable amalgamation with the Old Testament. The essential thing is to know in all its purity what constituted that teaching which was so lofty and so precious to men.

Jesus said he would destroy the temple and build a new one in three days. Jews objected and said that our way of serving God is wrong. Jesus said: "Do you not understand that what is external, bodily, cannot defile a man?"

Once many people came to Jesus to hear his teaching and he went up on a hill and sat down. And he began to teach the people what the Father's will was. The Kingdom of God will come for all men at a certain time and in a certain place.

I teach you in the name of the common Father of all men. As the Father gives life to the dead so the son give life to him who desires it. The Father has not condemned men to death, but has given them power.

To obtain true life, man must on earth resign the false life of the flesh and live by the spirit. If men were not sons of one spirit it would not be possible to overcome evil.

Jesus said: My teaching is not my own, but His that sent me. In my teaching there can be no contradictions, but your written Mosaic law is full of them.

John and James asked Jesus to make them chiefs among the pupils. When those who had been hired first saw that those hired last received a penny each, they thought they would receive more, but they also were paid a penny.

The temptation against the fifth commandment is for men to consider it their duty to do good to their fellow-countrymen only. Beware of the temptation to break the fourth commandment. Those who are dead from among men are alive to God.

Jesus told his pupils that to-night he would be taken and they would all abandon him and scatter. Peter said he would never deny him, and all the other pupils agreed. Jesus said: I will soak a bit of bread and will give it to him and he to whom I give it is my betrayer.

When Pilate heard these words he understood that he could not refuse to execute Jesus. Pilate called up Jesus and asked him: Who are you and where are you from? But Jesus did not answer him.

Jesus says that he who believes in the life of the spirit can fear nothing. The Orthodox said to Jesus that his teaching, even if it overcame evil, was itself an evil. To this Jesus said: Evil cannot overcome evil.

To understand the teaching of Jesus one must understand the life of children and be like them. In the kingdom of heaven there is neither greater nor less, all are equal. To live the true life we must never forget the past or the future.

Love is to sacrifice the bodily life for the sake of another: there is no other definition. Jesus said he fed him and given him drink and washed his feet. He said this to show you how to behave to those who harm you.

The teaching of Christ is not separated on the one side from an artificial and quite unjustifiable amalgamation with the Old Testament. The essential thing is to know in all its purity what constituted that teaching which was so lofty and so precious to men. This short exposition of the Gospel is a summary of a large work which exists in manuscript and cannot be published in Russia.

To obtain true life, man must on earth resign the false life of the flesh and live by the spirit. As the Father gives life to the dead so the son give life to him who desires it. If men were not sons of one spirit it would not be possible to overcome evil.

Jesus told his pupils that to-night he would be taken and they would all abandon him. Peter said he would never deny him, and all the other pupils agreed. Jesus said: I will soak a bit of bread and will give it to him.

To understand the teaching of Jesus one must understand the life of children and be like them. In the kingdom of heaven there is neither greater nor less, all are equal.

The teaching of Christ is not separated on the one side from an artificial and quite unjustifiable amalgamation with the Old Testament. As the Father gives life to the dead so the son give life to him who desires it. If men were not sons of one spirit it would not be possible to overcome evil.
