Summarizing: PREFACE The purpose of the present translator has been to render the poem of Dante into modern English, line-for-line. A preface which should attempt to state his complete obliga- tions would look like a bibliography, and would certainly be unsatisfactory in one phase, namely, in the expression of just feelings. Long study of some books which never disappoint, such as Toynbee's Dante Dictionary and Charles Eliot Norton's prose translation of the Divine Comedy, makes a mere mention of their titles almost a personal neglect. One would also gladly record his grati- tude for pleasure and profit from writings that help genially and with an ample, scholarly generosity, such as the commentary of Benvenuto da Imola in its original form or as expounded in the valuable Vernon Readings. In view of the essential inadequacy of any enumeration of books used such a listing has not been attempted. Since a metrical translation is a work of art as well as a work of science, the translator must avoid, when he is at his task, consultation of previous poetical solutions of the problem. Given the Italian text and sound commentaries, it has seemed merely honorable to rely solely on one's control of the English medium, unaided. That the result should prove the same as another's in very many cases has not caused discouragement. Translation of the Divine Comedy is progressive, yet the time seems not yet come for a variorum, composite

Summary: 
The difficulty of translating Dante's Comedy.



Summarizing: version. The English language has after long literary use become sufficiently clarified to fur- nish the verbal and rhythmical means of embodying any viii PREFACE thought. Experiments in imitating foreign excellences have their own interest ; yet criticism rejoices that the day of mock-Miltonic lines or like solecisms is past. Purity in rendering is now so highly esteemed that the intrusion of an explanation into a text is intellectually resented. Only Dante could tell what he would change if he were engaged on the Comedy today. As Dante is a very great poet, every quality of his style demands considera- tion ; his choice of words and of their place in sentence and in line can not be deemed fortuitous. His firmness of phrase is that of a living organism, and not of a crystal. The beauty and strength of the Italian language and the charm of rhyme as used by the poet are not to be enjoyed completely by those to whom the idiom is not native. An English translator of the Divine Comedy has at his com- mand, even if he were perfectly in control of his medium, only the strength and beauty of his own language; his results can be at best an English re-expression of his original, and with such rhythmical qualities as are pleasing to the English