
 The Gospel in Brief is in the public domain worldwide because the author died at least 100 years ago . This work is a translation and has a separate copyright status to the work . This short exposition of the Gospel is a summary of a large work which exists in manuscript and cannot be published in Russia .

 Each phrase of the prayer corresponds to the meaning and sequence of the chapters . In the present rendering the following are omitted: the conception and birth of John the Baptist, his imprisonment and death .

 The reader should remember that far from it being blameworthy to discard useless passages from the Gospels and elucidate some passages by others, it is on the contrary .

 According to this false interpretation Christ's teaching is only one link in a chain of revelations beginning with the commencement of the world and continuing in the Church until now . These false interpretations all employ one and the same gross method of affirming the truth of their interpretations .

 To this day there are some who, calling Jesus the second person of the Trinity, do not conceive of his teaching otherwise than in conjunction with those pseudo revelations of the past . Churchmen acknowledging the last revelation explaining all previous ones, should say so .

 The essential thing is not to prove that Jesus was not God and that therefore his doctrine is not divine, but to know in all its purity what constituted that teaching . The teaching of Christ as set forth in this book is quite a different teaching from that which he professes .

 Those who believed that life lies in the xiii. understanding became no longer sons of the flesh, but sons of understanding . LEO TOLSTÓY. YÁSNAYA POLYÁNA .

 The voice of the flesh said to him: If you are a son of God in the spirit, throw yourself from the temple, you will not hurt yourself . Jesus recognized them and said: You are a race of vipers .

 According to the teaching of the Orthodox, God had given Moses a law that everyone should observe Saturday and do nothing that day . The Orthodox said that anyone who worked on Saturday should not work on Saturday . The church-elder was angry with Jesus, and said: 'There are six days in the week on which on which people work'

 Isaiah said to you: 'The house of God is not the Temple in Jerusalem, but the whole world of God's people' In the courts of the temple were cattle: cows, bulls, and sheep; and there were cotes for pigeons; and money-changers behind their counters .

 It cannot be proved whether spoken words are from God or not from God . He who understands the words of the spirit proves thereby that he is a spirit . If he were really a prophet he would know what sort of a woman it is that is washing his feet: she is a wrong-doer .

 The law and the prophets were necessary till John came, but now he has announced that the Kingdom of God is on earth, and that he who makes an effort can can .

 Jesus began to explain to the people what the Kingdom of God is by parables . He said: The Father—who is the spirit—sows the life of God . God does not force men but casts seed on the ground and casts seed .

 Once many people came to Jesus to hear his teaching and he went up on a hill and sat down . And he began to teach the people what the Father's will do . That which was sown on stony ground represents the man who receives the teaching readily and gladly, but has no root and only accepts it for a time .

 In the former law it was said: Do not utter the name of the Lord God in vain . But I tell you that every oath is a profanation of of God . In the . former law, if a man killed another he must give a life for an eye, a tooth for a tooth, an arm for an arm .

 If you wish to pray, go where no one will see you, and pray to the Father of your spirit . If you suffer want, go about with a cheerful face that men may not see, but that your Father may see and give you what you need .

 The teaching of Jesus was quite different from that of the Orthodox professors of the law . Jesus rejoiced in the power of the spirit and said: I acknowledge the spirit of the Father, the source of everything in heaven and earth .

 I teach you in the name of the common Father of all men, and you do not accept my teaching, but if someone teaches you in his own name, him will . The Father has not condemned men to death, but has given them power to die or live at will .

 The return of the master and his call for an account is the destruction of the bodily life and the decision of the people's fate: whether they have increased the life . After this Jesus went into a desert place and many people followed him . He saw many people coming and said: Where can we get bread for all these people?

 Jesus chose seventy men from among those near him, and sent them to places he himself wished to go to . The Jews did not at all understand what he said, and began to dispute as to how it was possible to give one's body for the life of men .

 If men were not sons of one spirit it would not be possible to overcome evil, just as it is not possible to enter a strong man's house and rob it . To obtain true life, man must resign the false life of the flesh and live by the spirit .

 The only salvation for us is in the life of the spirit, in the fulfilment of its will, says Jesus . If we do not bear fruit we too shall perish unless we find salvation from death . Jesus said to them: You tell me that Pilate slew the Galileans .

 A steward secretly gave away some of his master's goods to the peasants and reduce their debts . Even now the Kingdom of God is attainable on earth, and they who enter it can enter it .

 Zacchaeus was saying to Jesus: 'See, Master, what I will do: I will give half my property to the poor' Jesus said: 'A camel can pass through the eye of a needle sooner than he who trusts in riches fulfil the will of the Father'

 Jesus said: You have a special time and place in which to serve God, but for me there is none. I work for God everywhere and always. That is not my own, but His that sent me . In my teaching there can be no contradictions, but your written Mosaic law is full .

 To know truth is to be a son and not a slave, says Jesus . He who does good will know the truth will be free from evil, from death . The Jews asked: Who are you? He said: I am the son of man, acknowledging the spirit as my Father .

 The Orthodox asked him how he had come to understand what he had not seen before . They said: You do not understand in a godly way, for Jesus did . Jesus explained to the ignorant man that he was a son of God in the spirit .

 Jesus: "True teachers give up their lives for the life of men" The Jews were offended at this and took up stones to kill him . But he said to them: I have shown you many good works and have disclosed the teaching of him .

 Jesus said to the people: The Father seeks to save that which is perishing . He rejoices over it as a shepherd rejoices when he finds a lost sheep .

 A master planted a garden, cultivated it, and did everything to make it yield as much fruit as possible . He sent labourers into the garden to work there, sending them to work . People do not like even a reminder of the spirit that lives in them and shows them that it is eternal .

 Ten maidens went with lamps to meet a bridegroom . Five of them were wise and five were foolish . The foolish ones took lamps without any extra oil, the wise ones were wise . To serve the son of man one must live without time .

 The king was angry and handed the vassal over to be tortured till his whole debt should be paid . But the other showed him no mercy and put him in prison . If a man has injured you do not forget that he is a son of the same Father .

 Orthodox teachers go about everywhere making people swear and vow that they will fulfil the law . But by this they only pervert people and make them worse than before . The temptation against the fifth commandment is for men to consider it their duty to do good to their fellow-countrymen only .

 Those who are dead from among men are alive to God . If God is, and God does not die, then they who are with God live always . Most of all, beware of the teaching of the scholars, the self-styled Orthodox .

 The Orthodox chief priests and scholars long consulted together and could not decide what to do with him . They could not make up their minds to kill him . Six days before the Passover Jesus said to his pupils: Let us go to Jerusalem .

 To exalt the son of man means to live by the light of understanding that is in you . He who believes in my teaching believes not in me but in that that of you .

 Peter made a sign to him that he should ask Jesus who the betrayer was . And he did so . Jesus said: I will soak a bit of bread and put it on the table . Peter said to him: Though all others may be frightened and scatter, I will not deny you .

 Judas (not Iscariot) said to him: But why cannot all men live by the spirit of truth? And Jesus replied: The Father loves only men . Philip said: But who is the Father?

 When I, as the spirit of truth, shall be in you, you will not always know that I am there . You too will grieve, but your sorrow will not come to you, but if I die it will abide in you .

 Jesus was taken to the palace of Annas, the father-in-law of Caiaphas, who was high priest that year . Judas, one of the twelve pupils, appeared with a large throng carrying sticks and swords . Peter snatched a sword from a servant of the high priest and slashed it .

 Pilate the governor came out to them and asked: Of what do you accuse this man? They said: He is an evil doer, so we have brought him to the judgement seat . Pilate listened to what they had to say, then ordered Jesus to be brought to him .

 Pilate tried to persuade them, and said: Why are you so hard on him? He has done nothing to deserve death and has done you no harm . Pilate ordered Jesus first to be scourged and mocked by the chief priests .

 Orthodox Jews worshipped an external God, whom they regarded as creator and ruler of the universe . But Jesus said: The Sabbath is a human institution .

 The spirit alone gives life to men, and it depends on them to preserve it or lose it . For the spirit, evil does not exist. Evil is an illusion .

 The teaching of Jesus surprised and attracted the people by the fact that it recognized all men as free . Jesus said to his pupils: The true food of man is to fulfil the will of the Father-spirit .

 The death of the body cannot be dreadful to a man who resigns himself to the will of the Father, for the life of the spirit does not depend on that . If you fulfil the will . of the . Father, of which no one can deprive you . No one can deprived you of the life the spirit, says Pope Francis .

 To fulfil the Father's will it is necessary to sacrifice the bodily life . The bodily life is wealth entrusted to us by another, which we should use so as to help the poor . Property not shared with others is held in non-shared property . A rich man is guilty in that he eats much and luxuriously, while the poor are hungry .

 Only he who so regards himself will fulfil the will of the common Father . Only he will cease to be a slave and become a free man . We are enslaved only because we are slaves only .

 The Jews still did not understand and still wanted proof of whether or not Jesus was the Christ . According to the teaching of Jesus no one can be either higher or more important than another .

 To understand the teaching of Jesus one must understand the life of children and be like them . True life is the fulfilment of the will of the Father, not in the past or in the future, but now . Children live in the Father's will, not infringing the five commandments .

 Men are tempted to infringe the fourth commandment by thinking that they can reform others by themselves yielding to anger and revenge . Men are called not to judge but to judge and to be a servant of the Lord's will .

 Jesus went to Jerusalem for the feast of the Passover . His pupils entreated him not to go, but he said: What did he do?

 Jesus said to the pupils: You are all of you wavering and timid; if they come to take me you will all run away . Peter replied: No Peter . Jesus said: I know that one of you will betray me and will shed my blood .

 The teaching of the world is that men should do evil to one another, but my teaching is that they should love one another . Therefore the world will hate you as a man, therefore the world . When I am no longer with you in the bodily life, my spirit will be with you .

 Jesus was brought before Caiaphas, who asked not to find out about his teaching but only to convict him . Jesus said: "I have concealed nothing and I've concealed nothing" The high priest was glad to hear these words and said to the other judges: Are not these words enough to condemn him?

 This e-book comes from the online library Wikisource . It's possible that we made some errors during the transcription and proofreading . The following users contributed to this book: Kathleen.wright5 Sherurcij .

 The Gospel in Brief is in the public domain worldwide because the author died at least 100 years ago . This work is a translation and has a separate copyright status to the work . This short exposition of the Gospel is a summary of a large work which exists in manuscript and cannot be published in Russia .

 The essential thing is not to prove that Jesus was not God and that therefore his doctrine is not divine, but to know in all its purity what constituted that teaching . The teaching of Christ as set forth in this book is quite a different teaching from that which he professes .

 According to the teaching of the Orthodox, God had given Moses a law that everyone should observe Saturday and do nothing that day . The Orthodox said that anyone who worked on Saturday should not work on Saturday .

 Jesus began to explain to the people what the Kingdom of God is by parables . He said: The Father—who is the spirit—sows the life of God . God does not force men but casts seed on the ground and casts seed .

 The teaching of Jesus was quite different from that of the Orthodox professors of the law . Jesus rejoiced in the power of the spirit and said: I acknowledge the spirit of the Father .

 The only salvation for us is in the life of the spirit, in the fulfilment of its will, says Jesus . If men were not sons of one spirit it would not be possible to overcome evil . If we do not bear fruit we too shall perish unless we find salvation from death .

 To know truth is to be a son and not a slave, says Jesus . He who does good will know truth will be free from evil, from death . Jesus said: You have a special time and place in which to serve God, but for me there is none .

 Jesus said to the people: The Father seeks to save that which is perishing . He rejoices over it as a shepherd rejoices when he finds a lost sheep . A master planted a garden, cultivated it, and did everything to make it yield fruit . He sent labourers into the garden to work there, sending them to work .

 The temptation against the fifth commandment is for men to consider it their duty to do good to their fellow-countrymen only . Those who are dead from among men are alive to God . If God is and God does not die, then they who are with God live always .

 Peter made a sign to him that he should ask Jesus who the betrayer was . And he did so . Jesus said: I will soak a bit of bread and put it on the table . Peter said to him: Though all others may be frightened and scatter, I will not deny you .

 Pilate the governor came out to them and asked: Of what do you accuse this man? They said: He is an evil doer, so we have brought him to the judgement seat . Pilate listened to what they had to say, then ordered Jesus to be brought to him . He ordered Jesus first to be scourged and mocked by the chief priests .

 The true food of man is to fulfil the will of the Father-spirit, says Pope Francis . Jesus said to his pupils: The death of the body cannot be dreadful to a man who resigns himself to the will . of the . Father, of which no one can deprive you of the life the spirit, he says .

 To understand the teaching of Jesus one must understand the life of children and be like them . True life is the fulfilment of the will of the Father, not in the past or in the future, but now . Children live in the Father's will, not infringing the five commandments .

 Jesus said to the pupils: You are all of you wavering and timid; if they come to take me you will all run away . Peter replied: No Peter . Jesus said: I know that one of you will betray me and will shed my blood .

 The Gospel in Brief is in the public domain worldwide because the author died at least 100 years ago . This work is a translation and has a separate copyright status to the work . This short exposition of the Gospel is a summary of a large work which exists in manuscript and cannot be published in Russia .

 The teaching of Jesus was quite different from that of the Orthodox professors of the law . Jesus rejoiced in the power of the spirit and said: I acknowledge the spirit of the Father . If men were not sons of one spirit it would not be possible to overcome evil .

 The temptation against the fifth commandment is for men to consider it their duty to do good to their fellow-countrymen only . If God is and God does not die, then they who are with God live always .

 To understand the teaching of Jesus one must understand the life of children and be like them . True life is the fulfilment of the will of the Father, not in the past or in the future, but now . Children live in the Father's will, not infringing the five commandments .

 The Gospel in Brief is in the public domain worldwide because the author died at least 100 years ago . The teaching of Jesus was quite different from that of the Orthodox professors of the law . Jesus rejoiced in the power of the spirit and said: I acknowledge the spirit of the Father .
