Iteration 0


 William Booth was tried on Friday, July 31, 1812, for forging a 1.2 million dollar bill . Booth and his Associates were found guilty of forgery .

 Birmingham constables obtained a warrant to go to the prisoner's house . The house of the prisoner was fortified and barricaded in the way that had been described . The only way to get into that chamber was through a trap door in the cieling of the parlour .

 Officer carried small pieces of paper resembling bank notes from a bench in the middle of that room, and putting them into the fire . He called out to the prisoner, who was fearful of a discovery . The prisoner was in the habit of having them buried, or as the cant phrase was, planted, after they had been used .

 The prisoner was charged with forging a Bank of England note for the sum of 1l . Material necessary for fabricating bank paper, upon beam at beam at some height, was . situated so situated that it could not be seen unless by a tall person standing on a chair, said the prisoner .

 Dorothy Ingeley said she saw some gentlemen and soldiers at Perry Barr . She was told she must not say what she heard when the prisoner was absent . The prisoner directed one of the Ingeleys to take that trunk and plant it .

 On the right hand the staircase communicated with the rooms over the kitchen; all those on the left hand were blocked up . There were two windows in the chamber over the parlour, one of which looked into the garden and the other into the fold-yard .

 A small trap door cut through the cieling about the middle of the room, there were no other means to get into the chamber but by a moveable ladder . There were seven bolts on it, they were in the inside towards the parlour, five of them fastened on the right as he stood facing the door .

 Mr. Clay, and Gideon Taylor, went in and observed a beam which went over the door and extended from one side of the room to the other . Taylor found the beam . The witness and others then went into the garret, but as what they found there related to another charge, he did not enumerate them .

 Witness jumped out of the garret through the trap door into the chamber or middle room, thinking there to meet with Booth, but as he was jumping down he saw Booth .

 Chillingworth brought several pieces of paper out of the parlour chimney, and gave them to witness, who has had them ever since in his possession . John Ingeley knows the prisoner, has been employed by him ever since last Christmas .

 Mr. Joseph Chirm is headborough of Birmingham, and was present at the search of Booth's house on the 16th of March, the officers first attempted to arrest him . Mr. Chirm was taken up on the Friday after Booth's apprehension, he had not then given any information of what he had done .

 Jolin Ingeley was in and about the house from Monday to Friday, but he cannot say whether he was detained or not .

 Mr. Edward Baker, is one of the constables of Birmingham, was at Booth's on the 16th March, he received the stamp or frame from Samuel Hollow . Mr. Bridges is paper maker to the Bank of England; he has seen the instrument called a hog .

 Mr. Alley admitted the contents of the trunk might be produced, but they had gone farther, they'd gone on to shew, that all those notes were forged . The notes found in the trunk were shewn in different parcels to Mr. Glover, who stated that the 130 (first parcel shewn) were all forged .

 No witnesses were called on behalf of the prisoner, nor did he say any thing in his defence . Jury to decide whether or not it was forged under his direction or directed . Second clause related to the Bank of England, but that clause was confined to forging, making, &c .

 William Booth and George Scot were tried, upon an indictment against the statute of the 13th of his present Majesty, for making paper . The Jury almost immediately returned a verdict of not guilty .

 Charles Clay proved his being present when Taylor found those articles, and their being delivered to him by his mark upon them . Joseph Chillingworth proved his going to assist in search at Booth's, his conversation with Booth while on the ladder, his getting in at the garret window, and his talking with Booth .

 Mr. Scot, on being asked if he wished any questions put to this witness, said, "All that he has said is a falsity" William Brewer, the paper mould maker, proved that the mould now produced, would make paper with the words BANK OF ENGLAND visible .

 William Booth and Elizabeth Chidlow were tried, for using plates for making promissory notes in imitation of Bank of England notes, and for having blank bank notes .

 Mr. Harper, engraver to the Bank of England, proved the blank Bank bills produced to be forgeries, and that they were printed from the plate now now . Mr. Chirm proved the manner of getting into the house, . and that he saw a rolling press similar to that in Court .

 A large bench of vices, a large lathe for turning to edge or burnish, a quantity of wood chocks, used to knock the coin out of the coin . Bank tokens were in the garret, these are put on the pieces when they are put in the press .

 Booth told witness to take the dies they had been using, and plant them, they were covered over with soft pitch and grease to prevent their rusting . Booth shut the doors in the passage after them, and fastened them, then ascended up the ladders through the trap doors into the garret .

 Mr. Linwood again proved being at Booth's house, and enumerated the several articles found in the garret . The Judge stopped the evidence, telling Puller he could not go into offences committed by the respective prisoners on different days, under one indictment .

 His Lordship said prosecutors must elect elect whether they would take Tuesday or Saturday as the day on which the offence was committed . Jury found Booth and John Yates Guilty, and found Booth guilty .

 Your's is not the case of a person guilty of a single offence, or against a single individual, but on the contrary, from your manufactory innumerable quantities of alcohol were found .
Iteration 1


 William Booth was tried on Friday, July 31, 1812, for forging a 1.2 million dollar bill . Booth and his Associates were found guilty of forgery . Birmingham constables obtained a warrant to go to the prisoner's house .

 Dorothy Ingeley said she saw some gentlemen and soldiers at Perry Barr . She was told she must not say what she heard when the prisoner was absent . The prisoner directed one of the Ingeleys to take that trunk and plant it .

 Witness jumped out of garret through trap door into chamber or middle room, thinking there to meet with Booth . As he was jumping down he saw Booth . Chillingworth brought several pieces of paper out of the parlour chimney, and gave them to witness, who has had them ever since in his possession .

 Mr. Alley admitted the contents of the trunk might be produced, but they had gone farther, they'd gone on to shew, that all those notes were forged . The notes found in the trunk were shewn in different parcels to Mr. Glover, who stated that the 130 (first parcel shewn) were all forged .

 Charles Clay proved his being present when Taylor found those articles, and their being delivered to him by his mark upon them . Joseph Chillingworth proved his going to assist in search at Booth's, his conversation with Booth while on ladder, his getting in at the garret window, and his talking with Booth . William Brewer, the paper mould maker, proved that the mould now produced, would make paper with the words BANK OF ENGLAND visible .

 Booth told witness to take the dies they had been using, and plant them, they were covered over with soft pitch and grease to prevent their rusting . Booth shut the doors in the passage after them, and fastened them, then ascended up the ladders through the trap doors into the garret .

 Your's is not the case of a person guilty of a single offence, or against a single individual, but on the contrary, from your manufactory innumerable quantities of alcohol were found .
Iteration 2


 William Booth was tried on Friday, July 31, 1812, for forging a 1.2 million dollar bill . Booth and his Associates were found guilty of forgery . Birmingham constables obtained a warrant to go to the prisoner's house .

 Charles Clay proved his being present when Taylor found those articles, and their being delivered to him by his mark upon them . Joseph Chillingworth proved his going to assist in search at Booth's, his conversation with Booth while on ladder, and his talking with Booth . William Brewer, the paper mould maker, proved that the mould now produced, would make paper with the words BANK OF ENGLAND visible .
Iteration 3


 William Booth was tried on Friday, July 31, 1812, for forging a 1.2 million dollar bill . Booth and his Associates were found guilty of forgery .
